---
title: Faculty of English
date: 2016-01-01
---
PhDs on literary subjects in the post-1830 period

Overview

The Cambridge English Faculty is a major centre for research in 19th- and 20th-century literature. Its staff include several leading figures in Victorian and 20th-century literary studies and it sustains a flourishing research culture. Instead,those students with interests primarily in contemporary critical theory and post-colonial studies should apply to the Faculty's MPhil in Criticism and Culture, and those with interests in American or transatlantic literature should apply to the MPhil in American Literature and those wishing to study 19th and 20th century anglophone literature with particular reference to its intellectual and historical contexts should apply to the MPhil in Modern and Contemporary Literature. We currently admit 10-12 new PhD students in this area each year. We welcome applications from able students who have completed or are completing Master's degrees here or elsewhere.

Programme

Our programme of support is designed to enable Ph.D students (1) to acquire academic skills (2) to get to know a range of Faculty members other than their supervisors (3) to gain a wider sense of their individual subjects and of the relation of those subjects to other research in the period and (4) to develop a research community amongst themelves. As well as meeting regularly with their individual supervisors and with two Faculty-appointed advisers, graduate students working in this period are expected to attend the following:

- throughout the three years

Two fortnightly Graduate Seminars, one focussed on nineteenth-century subjects, the other on twentieth-century subjects. Each offers a varied programme of papers on research in progress from students and from distinguished visiting speakers. These seminars are intended to provide a forum for the kind of collaborative work which usefully supplements and diversifies concentration on the PhD thesis. The seminars meet in alternate weeks, and students working in any part of the period will benefit from attending both.

- in the first year

Issues annd Methods

A series of weekly seminars in the first two terms, designed to enable incoming PhD students to get to know one another and one another's research subjects, and to help them to contextualize their work by providing a forum for informal discussion of texts and issues in the period, and of methods of research. Assistance will be given in preparing for the registration procedure at the end of the first year. A number of senior members of the Faculty working and publishing in this period will participate in these seminars and discuss the issues raised by their research. One main aim of this seminar is to assist graduate students in the period in laying the basis of a research community amongst themselves. The hope is that it will continue to evolve (as it has in past years) into a student-led reading group, meeting informally and conti