---
title: Winners of the 2020 Society of Authors' Awards
date: 2020-06-18
---
We are delighted to reveal the winning writers, poets and illustrators from across the globe sharing this year's Society of Authors' Awards £100,000 prize fund. Showcasing storytelling as activism and literature as a catalyst for change, the winners tackled a range of hard-hitting subjects in their work including war, queer identity, race and the climate crisis.

Announced via video ceremony by the SoA's Chair Joanne Harris, nine awards were presented to 32 authors, with emerging and established talent recognised across novels, short stories, poetry, non-fiction and a new accolade for illustrated children's books, The Queen's Knickers Award.

Uniquely judged by authors for authors, the list of winners includes: Trinidadian debut author and Desmond Elliot Prize winner Claire Adam (McKitterick Prize); drag troupe founder and writer of queer Muslim memoir Unicorn, Amrou Al-Kadhi (Somerset Maugham Award); Inua Ellams (Travelling Scholarships), poet, performer and playwright of National Theatre hit Barbershop Chronicles; Penguin Literary Prize winning Australian author Kathryn Hind (Betty Trask Prize); Guatemalan illustrator Elena Arevalo Melville (Queen's Knickers Award); and acclaimed Hebridean poet and debut novelist Donald S. Murray (Paul Torday Memorial Prize), alongside fellow Scottish writer, the Shetland poet and musician Roseanne Watt who received two accolades today (the Eric Gregory and Somerset Maugham Awards).

Joanne Harris, Chair of the SoA's Management Committee, says:

We've always said that receiving an SoA Award can be transformational for an author. They aren't about promoting big corporate sponsors. They don't seek out one big winner and say 'this one's best of all'. Each year, they reward the breadth and depth of books and words, and reward authors at the start of their careers as well as those well established.

This year, as the health crisis makes authors' precarious careers even more of a challenge to sustain, it is more important than ever to celebrate the work of today's 32 winners.

The nine Awards were judged as lockdown began. We announced the shortlists at the height of restrictions. And we're celebrating today in videos and on social media, instead of with a crowd of five hundred at Southwark Cathedral. So perhaps it is a lucky coincidence that in the week we announce the winners, many of our bookshops have started to reopen. What better way to celebrate today's winners by buying and reading them?

The Society of Authors' Awards will be celebrated with a day of online activity today (Thursday 18 June) in lieu of a physical ceremony. Hourly winners' videos from 10am – 8pm will showcase the nine prizes, with a free virtual afternoon tea at 4pm with author and Waterstones Children's Laureate Cressida Cowell. Videos and news will be shared from the Twitter (@soc_of_authors) and Instagram accounts (@society_of_Authors) with the hashtag #SoAwards.