ss's word translations can be found in the monograph "Songs of the Copper Eskimos" (1925).Roberts, Helen Hefron and Diamond Jenness "Songs of the Copper Eskimos. Report of the Canadian Arctic Expedition, 1913-18, Southern Party 1913-16, Volume XIV" Ottawa : F.A. Acland, 1925 Eight of Jenness's Copper Inuit recordings can be heard on CKUG's website. The radio station is located in Kugluktuk, Nunavut, Canada. The website also features a short video demonstrating how Jenness recorded these songs with the technology available in 1913.)

Copper Inuit subgroups studied by Jenness

Several subgroups were reported on by Jenness and they include:
*Akuliakattagmiut
*Haneragmiut
*Kogluktogmiut
*Pallirmiut
*Puiplirmiut
*Uallirgmiut (Kanianermiut)

Origin of the Copper Eskimos and their copper culture

In his article in Geographical Review, Jenness described how the Copper Inuit are more closely related to tribes of the east and southeast in comparison to western cultural groups, basing his conclusion on archaeological remains, materials used for housing, weapons, utensils, art, tattoos, customs, traditions, religion, and also linguistic patterns. He also considered how the dead are handled: whether they are covered by stone or wood, without any artifacts, as in the west, or "as in the east, laid out on the surface of the ground, unprotected but with replicas of their clothing and miniature implements placed beside them.".Jenness, Diamond. "Origin of Copper Eskimos and Their Copper Culture." Geographical Review. 13(4): 540–551.

Jenness characterized the "Copper Eskimos" as being in a pseudo-metal stage, in between the Stone and Iron Ages, because this cultural group treated copper as simply a malleable stone which is hammered into tools and weapons. He discussed whether the use of copper arose independently with different cultural groups or in one group and was then "borrowed" by others. Jenness goes on to explain that indigenous communities began to use copper first and following this, the Inuit adopted it. He cited the fact that slate was previously used among Inuit and was replaced by copper at a later time after the indigenous communities had begun to use it.

First World War

The scientific members of the Canadian Arctic Expedition completed their mission and left the north in 1916. Jenness was assigned an office in the Victoria Museum of Ottawa and instructed to write up his expedition findings. After six months of feverishly working on his collections, notes, and initial reports for the government, Jenness, concerned about the events in Europe, enlisted in the World War 1 and served in France and Belgium. Being of slight build and short of stature, he was assigned to duties other than direct combat.Jenness, Diamond and Stuart E. Jenness, 2008. "Through Darkening Spectacles: Memoirs of Diamond Jenness" Mercury Series, History Paper 55, Gatineau, QC: Canadian Museum of Civilization, pp. 67-68.

Field work and writing

In December 1918, Jenness applied and received military leave to finish writing his Papua studies report in Oxford, (delayed due his having joined the CAE and then the war). While in Oxford, he received word that his unit was one of the first to be sent home from the war. Jenness returned to Ottawa in March, 1919, and the next month married his fiancé, Eileen Bleakney. After their honeymoon in New Zealand, Jenness set about writing up his Arctic reports, and produced eight government reports in five volumes, totaling 1,368 pages.Jenness, Diamond and Stuart E. Jenness, 2008. "Through Darkening Spectacles: Memoirs of Diamond Jenness" Mercury Series, History Paper 55, Gatineau, QC: Canadian Museum of Civilization, p. 76-77 Richling states: "The scientific results of the Canadian Arctic Expedition filled fifteen volumes. One-third of them contained the product of Jenness's investigations."Richling, Barnett (2012). In Twilight and in Dawn: A Biography of Diamond Jenness (Volume 67) (McGill-Queen's Indigenous and Northern Studies). Montreal, Quebec: McGill-Queen's University Press. p. 335. ISBN 978-0773539815.

Canadian First Nations

A year and a half after his return from the war, the Canadian Government made his employment at the Victoria Memorial Museum permanent, and he was assigned to study many of the Indian tribes of Canada. (Jenness's employment had previously been on a yearly contract basis.)Jenness, Diamond and Stuart E. Jenness, 2008. "Through Darkening Spectacles: Memoirs of Diamond Jenness" Mercury Series, History Paper 55, Gatineau, QC: Canadian Museum of Civilization, p. 78

The Sarcee, on a reserve in Calgary, Alberta, were the first of many First Nation tribes in Jenness's fieldwork. That experience also provided his first encounter with the deplorable conditions Canada's indigenous peoples experienced on reserves.Richling, Barnett (2012). In Twilight and in Dawn: A Biography of Diamond Jenness (Volume 67) (McGill-Queen's Indigenous and Northern Studies). Montreal, Quebec: McGill-Queen's University Press. p.163 ISBN 978-0773539815. After the Sarcee, Jenness undertook fieldwork study of the Sekani. Beothuk (extinct), Ojibwa, and Salish. Collins and Taylor refer to Jenness's Indians of Canada (1931c) as "the definitive work on the Canadian aborigines, dealing comprehensively with the ethnology and history of the Canadian Indians and Eskimos".

Archaeological discoveries

Although most of Jenness's time was devoted to Indian studies and administrative duties, he also identified two very important prehistoric Eskimo cultures: the Dorset culture in Canada (in 1925)Jenness, D., 1925. "A new Eskimo culture in Hudson Bay". Geographical Review, vol. 15, no. 3, pp. 428–437. and the Old Bering Sea culture in Alaska (in 1926),Jenness, D., 1928. "Archaeological investigations in Bering Strait, 1926". National Museum of Canada Bulletin no. 50, pp. 71–80. for which he later was named "Father of Eskimo Archaeology."Collins, Henry B., 1967. "Diamond Jenness: Arctic Archaeology". The Be