help ensure they had steady employment; 4) not enforcing the Potash Law; 5) improving Indian health services; 6) protecting native hunting and trapping grounds.Jenness, Diamond and Stuart E. Jenness, "Through Darkening Spectacles: Memoirs of Diamond Jenness" by Diamond Jenness and Stuart E. Jenness, Canadian Museum of Civilization, Mercury Series, (2008) p. 170

His suggestions appear to have had little influence. The government shifted attention away from domestic problems when World War II broke out, and Jenness (being too old for combat) was assigned temporary duties to assist in war efforts at home.Jenness, Diamond and Stuart E. Jenness, "Through Darkening Spectacles: Memoirs of Diamond Jenness" by Diamond Jenness and Stuart E. Jenness, Canadian Museum of Civilization, Mercury Series, (2008) pp. 193–201 Shortly after the war, he is recorded as having said: "Unhappily nearly all our Indians today—not only the northern ones, but those in the south, too, who live on reserves, whether here in the east or on the prairies or in British Columbia—have lost their dignity, their self-reliance and self-respect."Canada, Parliament, Special Joint Committee of the Senate and House of Commons, vol. 1. Ottawa: King's Printer 1947, p. 307

Joint parliamentary committee meeting (1947)

In 1947, Jenness – officially billed as "Dominion Anthropologist" – was called before a joint parliamentary committee to share his views and answer questions.Richling, Barnett (2012). In Twilight and in Dawn: A Biography of Diamond Jenness (Volume 67) (McGill-Queen's Indigenous and Northern Studies). Montreal, Quebec: McGill-Queen's University Press. pp. 291. ISBN 978-0773539815. He presented a plan to address what he referred to as the "immorally indefensible" state of Indian social and economic conditions. His plan was based upon New Zealand's management of its native affairs since the early 1860s, which, in his view, was being administered successfully at that time. "Because they are 'free citizens,' " Jenness stated, "Maori are neither segregated on reserves, nor subject to state-sanctioned institutional barriers limiting their participation in national life." He pointed out that Maoris were treated as full and equal citizens but also encouraged to maintain their distinct cultural identity, values, and traditions. They were allowed to attend public schools and hold government office. Their local communities were becoming largely self-governing - operating in accord with customary tribal authority yet with access to courts to settle land disputes.Richling, Barnett (2012). In Twilight and in Dawn: A Biography of Diamond Jenness (Volume 67) (McGill-Queen's Indigenous and Northern Studies). Montreal, Quebec: McGill-Queen's University Press. pp. 293. ISBN 978-0773539815.

Some modern viewpoints

Some anthropologists are critical of the role played by Diamond Jenness in Canadian state policies. Stevenson, one of Jenness's modern critics who references Kulchyski's views in her book, concludes that his solution for Inuit groups was to "ensure that in a 'definite and not too remote' future there will be 'no such thing' as an Indian or an Eskimo."Stevenson, Lisa. 2014. Life Beside Itself: Imagining Care in the Canadian Arctic. University of California Press. These critics say that a focus on assimilation destroys the cultural identity of the indigenous peoples.

Richling points out that fifteen years before he presented his plan, Jenness had "pessimistically predicted in The Indians of Canada that social and economic forces had already foreclosed on the cultural (and for some, even physical) survival of nearly all Canada's Aboriginal peoples."

At the meeting in 1947, Jenness, as before in his memo to the Deputy Minister Camden, emphasized the importance of education and vocational training to assist these already displaced peoples in becoming more self-sufficient.Canada, Parliament, Special Joint Committee of the Senate and House of Commons, vol. 1. Ottawa: King's Printer 1947, p. 310 Using the example of Eskimos in Greenland and Siberia, he suggested teaching the migratory northern Indians skills for trades such as airplane pilot and mechanic, mineral prospecting, wireless operation, game and forest protection, and fur farming.Canada, Parliament, Special Joint Committee of the Senate and House of Commons, vol. 1. Ottawa: King's Printer 1947, p. 311

Jenness also pointed out that Japanese children were attending schools with white children in British Columbia while half a mile away Indian children attended segregated schools. In response to his comment, one of the committee members said that this was his district and he'd personally observed Japanese students in classrooms with white children. He added that the Japanese and [west coast] Indians are both members of Oriental races, a fact that had been overlooked, and to put the Indian children in separate schooling, in his opinion, was wrong.Canada, Parliament, Special Joint Committee of the Senate and House of Commons, vol. 1. Ottawa: King's Printer 1947, p. 315

Another criticism of Jenness is that he "cared about the Inuit: he didn't want them to become dependent on welfare and thus demoralized, and he wanted them to be as resourceful as their ancestors. However, his way of caring ignored who they were or wanted to become."

In the same 1947 parliamentary proceedings the critic refers to, Jenness told the committee there certainly were other approaches to be weighed [than the ones he suggested], especially those originating with the peoples whose future hung in the balance. The committee then questioned him whether he felt the Indians themselves should be asked what they think? Jenness responded "Yes." He continued to say he felt a proposed plan should be shared with them, and their views should be considered. "I think you would get some very constructive ideas from some of the Indians," he said.Canada, Parliament, Special Joint Committee of the Senate and House of Commons