ka (published 1957 and 1985).

For a complete list of Jenness's 138 articles and publications, please refer to Appendix 2 in Through Darkening Spectacles: Memoirs of Diamond Jenness by Diamond Jenness and Stuart E. Jenness, Canadian Museum of Civilization, Mercury Series, (2008). Dr. de Laguna's obituary of Jenness in the American Anthropologist lists 109 publications, and the University of Calgary's: Arctic 23-2-71 obituary of Jenness by Collins, Henry B. & Taylor, William E. Jr. lists 98.

Biographies

Nansi Swayze published a brief popular account about Jenness's life in The Man Hunters (1960).

The Canadian Museum of Civilization published Through Darkening Spectacles: Memoirs of Diamond Jenness (2008). The story is told primarily by Diamond himself with additional sections by his son Stuart Jenness. This biography covers Diamond's professional and personal life.

Barnett Richling has, since 1989, published several articles on various aspects of Jenness's life, and a complete, scholarly biography of Jenness's professional life: In Twilight and in Dawn: A Biography of Diamond Jenness published in 2012 by McGill–Queen's University Press.

See also

*Uloqsaq
*String figure

Further reading

(The first two books were published by the Canadian Museum of History):
* Arctic Odyssey: Diary of Diamond Jenness, 1913–1916 Jenness's detailed diary while he was with the Canadian Arctic Expedition. It was edited by his son Stuart and published in 1991.
* Through Darkening Spectacles: Memoirs of Diamond Jenness (2008). In this book, Stuart Jenness completed Jenness's last manuscript, creating a hybrid auto-biography and biography.
*In Twilight and in Dawn: A Biography of Diamond Jenness (Volume 67, McGill–Queens Indigenous and Northern Studies, 2012); by Barnett Richling.
* Life Beside Itself: Imagining Care in the Canadian Arctic, by Lisa Stevenson. In this book (2014:115–121), Stevenson critiques Jenness for his advocacy for and participation in state-sponsored assimilationist policies.

References

External links

*Diamond Jenness archived at Natural Resources Canada
*People of the Canadian Arctic Expedition
*'Diamond Jenness': After the Grind 
*Bio sketch by Henry B. Collins and William E. Taylor, Jr. 
* 
* The Papers of Diamond Jenness at Dartmouth College Library

Category:1886 births
Category:1969 deaths
Category:Alumni of Balliol College, Oxford
Category:Anthropology writers
Category:Canadian ethnologists
Category:Canadian diarists
Category:Companions of the Order of Canada
Category:Persons of National Historic Significance (Canada)
Category:New Zealand anthropologists
Category:New Zealand emigrants to Canada
Category:String figures
Category:Victoria University of Wellington alumni
Category:Massey Medal recipients
Category:History of the Inuvialuit Settlement Region
Category:Fellows of the Royal Canadian Geographical Society
Category:20th-century Canadian anthropologists
Category:People educated at Wellington College, Wellington