eration designed to test the effectiveness of motorized vehicles in the Arctic and Subarctic regions of Canada. The assignment took him from Churchill, Manitoba, across the barrens by tractor-train to Baker Lake. Retiring from the Army in 1946, he joined the Defence Research Board, where he was responsible for Arctic research. He oversaw the Board's sponsorship and support of Operation Lyon, which brought a medical research team, including Graham, to Igloolik by R.C.A.F Canso aircraft in the late summer of 1949. Needless to say, he took the opportunity to engage again in archaeological excavation, picking up where he had left off ten years previously, and uncovered some interesting Dorset and Thule material. In 1947, ... Graham and ... like-minded friends, founded the Arctic Circle Club, an Ottawa-based association that quickly became the focus for all those with northern interests. ... In 1951, Graham began his 23-year career with the Department of Northern Affairs and National Resources ..., serving first as Secretary of the Advisory Committee on Northern Development, responsible for the coordination of government activities in the North, then as Scientific Adviser. ... he was closely involved with the planning and establishment for the Eastern Arctic Scientific Resource Centre, now the Igloolik Research Centre, which opened in 1975 and, through federal and now territorial administration, has supported scientific research in northern Foxe Basin ever since. ... Graham re tired from the Public Service in 1974, .... The archaeological work of Graham's daughter Susan on Igloolik Island, which spanned a decade beginning in the mid-1980s, happily gave Graham the opportunity to return frequently to his old haunts. ... Graham's professional achievements were widely acknowledged: investiture in the Order of Canada, honorary doctorates from Carleton Univesity and the University of Saskatchewan, the Massey Medal of the Royal Canadian Geographical Society, and the Northern Science Award, to name a few. He was also a past Chairman of the Arctic Institute of North America. ...Downloads

Download data is not yet available.