---
title: 11 of the best TV shows to watch this November
date: 2024-10-29
---
11 of the best TV shows to watch this November

From a small-screen spinoff of the Denis Villeneuve Dune films to the return of Sharon Horgan's Bad Sisters, these are the shows to stream this month.

The Day of the Jackal

Casting is the biggest lure in this action thriller, with Eddie Redmayne as an assassin-for-hire, code-named Jackal. The character first appeared in Frederick Forsyth's 1971 novel, which became a 1973 film with Edward Fox, but the story has been updated to the present. Now Lashana Lynch is Bianca, an MI6 agent determined to catch the Jackal. "I will find him and kill him myself," she tells her sceptical bosses. He varies his look with disguises, eluding her as she chases him across Europe amid explosions and shootouts. Redmayne is known for more sympathetic roles, like Stephen Hawking in The Theory of Everything, but he has said that playing this villain was part of the series' appeal. "They have a really complex moral compass and do horrendous things, but are also extraordinarily talented," Redmayne told Vanity Fair about The Jackal and Bianca. "You're drawn to them and repelled by them in equal measure." Charles Dance and Richard Dormer also feature in the show, which was created by Ronan Bennett (Top Boy).

The Day of the Jackal premieres 7 November on Sky Atlantic and NOW in the UK and 14 November on Peacock in the US

Bad Sisters

This show about sisters and murder in Dublin won the 2023 Bafta for best drama series, but it is also a delicious dark comedy. In this second season the five Garvey sisters can't avoid more fallout from the past, when Grace (Anne-Marie Duff) killed her abusive husband, and her siblings helped cover it up. Now Grace marries a new love, apparently borrowed from Sandra Oh because he is played by Owen McDonnell, Oh's husband on Killing Eve. Sharon Horgan, who also created Bad Sisters, plays the responsible Eva, with Eve Hewson as the freewheeling baby of the family, Becka, Sarah Green as Bibi, and Eva Birthistle as Ursula, a nurse whose skills are handy because people around that family tend to need medical help. Two terrific new cast additions include Fiona Shaw as a nosy neighbour and Thaddea Graham as a smart, underestimated young detective who has her suspicions about the Garveys. The plot often hinges on near-escape – how many times can the sisters narrowly avoid being locked up? – and it is great fun to watch them try.

Bad Sisters premieres 13 November on Apple TV+ internationally

Say Nothing

Patrick Raden Keefe's 2018 non-fiction book about the Troubles in 1970s Northern Ireland was compelling because of its strong narrative and focus on characters, which makes it a natural source for this fact-based drama. The story begins when Jean McConville, a suspected member of the Irish Republican Army, is abducted. The series then takes us inside the IRA. Lola Pettigrew plays the central character, Dolours Price, who alon