Flavoring her recipes with cherished family anecdotes, memories, and helpful tips, The Way Home is a perfect blend of the modern and the traditional. Kardea honors her proud heritage and shows off her own signature class and sass. The result is a marvelous, big-hearted collection of recipes and stories that will nourish you, body and soul. The Way Home became an instant New York Times Bestselling Cookbook, making it to number 6 on the list.

Meredith O'Sullivan

Co-Founder/Co-CEO, The Lede Company

Meredith O'Sullivan is a Co-founder and Co-CEO of The Lede Company, a female-owned strategy, communications, integrated marketing and social impact consulting firm, specializing in corporate, entertainment, lifestyle, fashion, beauty, tech, consumer products, and nonprofit sectors founded in 2018. With dedicated Talent, Strategic Communications, Crisis, Brand, Content and Social Impact divisions, the firm works with a range of clients including Amy Schumer, Cara Delevigne, Charlize Theron, Emma Stone, Gael Garcia Bernal, Halle Berry, Halsey, Jennifer Garner, Jessica Biel, Lady Gaga, Mary J. Blige, Pharrell Williams, Penelope Cruz, Reese Witherspoon, Rihanna, Shakira, Will Ferrell, Will Smith, Anonymous Content, Candle Media, The Gotham Film & Media Institute, Hello Sunshine, Higher Ground, Illumination, Live Nation, Paramount, Westbrook, Nice Crowd (fka ABFF Ventures), content from Netflix, Hulu, Apple TV+, Freeform, as well as independent films and documentaries, ONE Campaign, The Global Fund, Thom Browne, Altuzarra, Kenzo, PANGAIA, Savage x Fenty, Tony's Chocolonely, Blue Bottle Coffee, Essence Ventures, Violet Grey and WhatsApp, among others.

Shelley Zalis

CEO, Female Quotient

Known as the "Chief Troublemaker," Shelley Zalis is a trailblazer for women in the workplace. She is an internationally renowned entrepreneur, a pioneer for online research, a sought-after speaker, a well-known thought leader, and a devoted mentor.

As founder and CEO of The Female Quotient, Zalis is in the business of equality™. Her mission is to change the equation and close the gender gap in the workplace. Together with Fortune 500 companies, impact organizations, and conscious leaders, The FQ curates experiences, media, and solutions that advance gender equality. The FQ has forever altered the business agenda through its signature Equality Lounges® advancing equality at the largest global business and industry conferences, including Davos, CES, SXSW, Cannes and more.

Prior to The FQ, Zalis became the mother of online research when she founded OTX (Online Testing Exchange), which quickly grew into one of the world's largest research companies and earned Zalis distinction as the first female chief executive ranked in the research industry's top 25. She sold OTX to Ipsos in 2010, where she led global innovation in over 80 countries.

With a bold approach to leadership, business, and life, Zalis is an acclaimed speaker and dynamic moderator who has interviewed top-level CE