Canadian sex educator who shared unabashedly honest sex advice on programs like Sunday Night Sex Show and Talk Sex With Sue Johanson, died at 93. Johanson rose to popularity when she began hosting her radio program Sunday Night Sex Show, which saw her answer all manner of sex-related questions live on air. The program went on to become a successful television series and received its own U.S. spin-off, Talk Sex With Sue Johanson, in 2002. Johanson was also the author of three books and starred on several episodes of the television series Degrassi Junior High and Degrassi: The Next Generation.

Julian Sands

The remains of 65-year-old English actor Julian Sands were identified June 27, more than five months after he was reported missing following a hike in the Southern California mountain. Sands first earned attention as an actor opposite Anthony Hopkins in the 1983 miniseries A Married Man, NBC's adaptation of The Sun Also Rises, and The Killing Fields, before rising to prominence as the romantic lead of the 1985 drama A Room With a View. He went on to appear in such films and TV series as Leaving Las Vegas, Arachnophobia, Boxing Helena, The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo, Ocean's Thirteen, Smallville, Dexter, and 24.

Nicolas Coster

Nicolas Coster, the soap opera star best known for playing Lionel Lockridge on NBC's Santa Barbara, died June 26 after complications of myelodysplastic syndromes following a long battle with cancer. He was 89. Coster made his big-screen debut in the 1950s with an uncredited role in Titanic. The prolific character actor had a career that spanned several decades, including roles in All the President's Men, Star Trek: The Next Generation, Charlie's Angels, and All My Children. Coster received three Daytime Emmy nominations during his tenure on Santa Barbara and later won in 2017 for his turn as Mayor Jack Madison on Prime Video's The Bay. In recent years, he appeared on The Young Pope, The Last Exorcist, and The Deep Ones, which he also co-produced. In 2021, Coster published a memoir, Another Whole Afternoon.

Frederic Forrest

Frederic Forrest, a veteran character actor who was known for playing an excitable chef in Apocalypse Now and also received an Oscar nomination for his work in the 1979 musical drama The Rose, died June 24 at 86. Born in Waxahachie, Texas, Forrest moved to New York to study acting, and found success in the theater before moving to Los Angeles to pursue a film career. His big-screen credits included The Conversation, Tucker: The Man and His Dream, Valley Girl, The Two Jakes, Falling Down, Chasers, Lassie, and Point Blank, while his TV credits included Lonesome Dove, Quo Vadis, and 21 Jump Street.

Betta St. John

Betta St. John, the actress known for playing Lita in the original Broadway production of South Pacific and for starring alongside Cary Grant in Dream Wife, died June 23 at 93. Born Betty Jean Striegler in Hawthorne, Calif., she also appeared in a few Tarzan films — first Tarzan and the Lost