Evolution, fan comfort and a little TV magic have given these longest-running TV series staying power – sometimes for decades.

In 2024, there is no shortage of television programming to choose from. But quality series – those that have managed to captivate audiences season after season – are harder to come by.

While certain TV series have been hits with audiences and critics alike only to be cancelled after one or a handful of seasons, (from My So-Called Life and Freaks and Geeks to Mindhunter), others just keep coming back. ABC's medical drama Grey's Anatomy is embarking on its 20th season, and the animated series Family Guy was renewed for its 23rd, appearing on Fox since 1999.

There's no exact formula for television longevity. Still, sticking around for decades means a show can reach millions of viewers not just at one time, but from one generation to another – a marker of a story and characters that truly resonate.

Here are some of TV's longest-lasting shows that have managed to do just that.

Animated comedy: The Simpsons, 34 seasons

The Simpsons is one of the longest-running series in TV history. It began in 1987 as a short sketch on the Tracey Ullman Show before entering syndication two years later. And after an impressive 34 seasons, it's still being produced today. Few series have ever offered the kind of funny and cunning cultural critiques as The Simpsons – in fact, its writers have often been so spot-on with their commentary on current events, they've been credited with predicting them.

South Park, which is slightly more political (and way less PG) than The Simpsons, seems to operate similarly. While it doesn't have quite as many seasons as Bart and family, the never-ageing trash-mouthed eight-year-olds of Southpark have been going strong on Comedy Central for 27 seasons and counting, still amassing plenty of viewers.

Children's television: Sesame Street, 54 seasons

We may not be able to tell you how to get to Sesame Street, but we can point you to the right channel: after 54 years, the programme still airs on PBS in the United States. Given that Sesame Street continues to educate children on the ABCs and kindness, while also featuring some of the most famous celebrities of any given era – from Robin Williams to Destiny's Child – it has good reason to keep going another half century.

Late night: The Tonight Show, 70 seasons

Late-night programming lends itself to cultural commentary like no other type of television. Perhaps that's why plenty of late-night shows, such as the sketch comedy series Saturday Night Live (now in its 49th season) and The Late Late Show (29 seasons) have stood the test of time. None, however, have lasted quite as long as The Tonight Show, which has seen six comedian hosts: Steve Allen, Jack Paar, Johnny Carson, Jay Leno, Conan O'Brien and the current host, Jimmy Fallon.

More like this:

– Is the mediocre romcom making a grand return?

Soap Opera: Coronation Street, 64 seasons

Not all long-running sh