---
title: Raven Reyes
date: 2017-04-27
---
| " | There's nothing like a little pain to remind you you're alive. | " |

| — Raven to Jasper [src] |

Raven Reyes is a major character in the second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh seasons, after appearing as a recurring character in the first season. She is portrayed by starring cast member Lindsey Morgan and debuts in "Earth Skills".

While on Earth, Raven was the primary mechanic and explosives expert for the Delinquents. Raven is not part of the original the 100, however, she barters her way down to Earth with the help of Abigail Griffin to join her boyfriend, Finn Collins, by refurbishing an escape pod. Once on Earth, Raven builds a radio that allows the Delinquents to make contact with the Ark. She also created walkie-talkies, bullets, grenades and bombs for the 100, and even instructs Clarke Griffin and Jasper Jordan on how to rig the dropship to "blast off" in the Season One finale.

During the second season, Raven struggles with nerve damage in her left leg from a gunshot injury she received when John Murphy shot her on the dropship. She also has to deal with the after-effects of Finn's massacre at Tondc, including witnessing him die at the hands of Clarke. Raven is later tortured by Grounders when they believe she tried to poison their Commander. After Bellamy infiltrates Mount Weather, she establishes radio contact with him to help him disable the Acid Fog. Later, she and Wick take out Mount Weather's electricity by disabling their dam. They are caught by the Mountain Men and Raven is once again tortured when they begin harvesting her bone marrow. At the end of Season Two, she is in Camp Jaha, recovering from the latter.

In the third season, Raven continues to struggle with her pain. She joins A.L.I.E.'s cult in an attempt to be freed from it, but rebels when she realizes she can not remember Finn. However, Raven eventually submits to A.L.I.E., who uses her to force Abby to take the chip, leading to the fall of Arkadia. Raven is later un-chipped and actively works against A.L.I.E., trying to destroy her by accessing the City of Light code with the help of Monty and Clarke. She retains a small part of A.L.I.E.'s code in her head, increasing her brain processing speed and overall making her much smarter.

In the fourth season Raven returns to Arkadia with her people and begins fortifying Alpha Station to shield from the upcoming second nuclear apocalypse. After discovering that Nightblood gives radiation resistance, Raven leaves with a small team to go to Becca's Island to figure out how to reverse engineer the blood. There, Raven begins to suffer seizures and hallucinations, but manages to cure it and finds a rocket. At the end of the season, she escapes Priamfaya by retreating to the remains of the Ark in space.

In the fifth season, Raven is surviving with Spacekru on the Ark. After traveling with Spacekru to Eligius IV, Raven volunteers to stay in space while the rest of the g