urselves at a time when our only capital was our good will, our hope, our native skills and our confidence in ourselves and in the future. We were the first generation of the young Republic and it was Ataturk's reforms that spurred us on."

The Vakko brand name, which combines the first initials of Vitali and his brother Albert's names with the last three letters of their surname, would be synonymous with fashion in Turkey for years to come. The slogan, 'Fashion Is Vakko', used in their advertising campaigns for years confirmed this.
Back in the days when raw silk was still sent to France to be printed, Vitali Hakko created scarves that could be considered works of art using Anatolian cottons and Bursa silks. He also turned the designs of prominent artists such as painter and poet Bedri Rahmi Eyüboğlu into scarves. In 1948 he set up Turkey's first factory for printing cloth in the district of Kurtuluş in Istanbul's European sector, where scarves bearing the Vakko label are still produced today. By the fifties, Hakko realized that he was not going to be able satisfy his love of fashion simply with scarves.

With his quick mind and his perception of fashion as an integral whole, he decided to introduce ready-to-wear in Turkey. His chief competitors were the numerous neighborhood tailors and dressmakers that made clothes to order.Coming out ahead in the competition, he organized the first style show in the history of fashion in Turkey.It was 1955, Ottoman motifs entered his life around the same time when he began to incorporate into his fabrics motifs from the traditional Ottoman arts of calligraphy, illumination and paper marbling that impressed him at the Topkapı Palace.
In 1962, when no lady would be caught dead without a hat and no gentleman without a 'cravatte' in Beyoğlu, Hakko opened his first big store here. Later he would bring his great love for this district, his 'prolonged love affair' as he put it, to the Society for the Beautification of Beyoğlu, of which he was one of the founders. In this store, whose sign read 'Vakko', shoppers would also encounter for the first time concepts such as 'no bargaining', 'regular discounts', and 'no returns or exchanges'.

In 1969 he would take Vakko, which he had nurtured with his own hands, to an innovative factory in Merter, an outlying industrial area on the road to the airport. Fashion and art went hand in hand here at the factory, which was filled with paintings and sculptures by prominent Turkish artists.
Hakko's love of art was unquenchable and found further expression in the art galleries he opened at his stores. Further expanding Vakko in the seventies, Vitali Hakko also took the store to Ankara and Izmir, and in 1982 created a new brand together with his son Cem. Called Vakkorama, this chic new youth trademark was a dynamic entity that combined style, fashion, art, music and sports.

I can't paint," he would say, "but I can spot a scarf or necktie whose pattern or color I believe will make pe