---
title: Diamond Jenness - Wikipedia
author: Authority control databases
date: 2005-02-07
---
name: Diamond Jenness
alt: Colourized studio portrait of Diamond Jenness, circa 1950
birth_date: 10 February 1886
birth_place: Wellington, New Zealand
death_date: 29 November 1969
death_place: Chelsea, Quebec, Canada
resting_place: Beechwood Cemetery, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada
known_for: His comprehensive early studies of Canada's First Nation's people and the Copper Inuit.
education: University of New Zealand (from the constituent college in Wellington, then called Victoria University College)Balliol College, University of Oxford
employer: National Museum of Canada
occupation: Anthropologist
predecessor: Dr. Edward Sapir
spouse: Frances Eilleen Jenness
children: John L. Jenness, Stuart E. Jenness, Robert A. Jenness

Diamond Jenness, (February 10, 1886, Wellington, New Zealand – November 29, 1969, Chelsea, Quebec, Canada) was one of Canada's greatest early scientistsGranatstein, J., 1998. "Sir William Logan", Maclean's magazine, vol. 111, no. 26, (July 1), pp. 38–40. and a pioneer of Canadian anthropology.

Early life (1886–1910)

Family and childhood

Diamond Jenness was the second youngest son in a middle-class family of ten children. His father's profession was that of a watchmaker/jeweler, though he also installed several clocks in municipal building towers in New Zealand. The family was encouraged to read, learn music, and engage in sports. Richling, in his biography "In Twilight and in Dawn," writes that the young Jenness "was a proficient outdoorsman and an accomplished sharpshooter," skills that helped prepare him for his experience in the arctic years later.

Education

At an early age, Jenness showed proficiency for learning. He earned his first scholarship at the age of twelve by entering a composition competition for children under fourteen. In those days, in New Zealand, secondary education was only available to the wealthier families, so this scholarship enabled Jenness to complete high school and three years of college. He finished his final year of secondary education with six prizes: mathematics, science, Latin, French and English, and was named top student. He attended Lower Hutt School, then Wellington College. He and sister May were the only two siblings to proceed on to college.

Jenness graduated from the University of New Zealand (from the constituent college then called Victoria University College) (B.A. 1907; M.A. 1908), receiving first class honors for both degrees. Then, when 22 years old, he received a scholarship that allowed him to pursue further education at Balliol College, University of Oxford (Diploma in Anthropology, 1910; M.A. 1916).

Career (1911–1948)

Field work – Northern D'Entrecasteaux

From 1911 to 1912, as an Oxford Scholar, he studied a little-known group of people on the D'Entrecasteaux Islands in eastern Papua New Guinea. Jenness comments:

:::"They peered at me from out-of-the-way corners, or through the do