B.C. Cancer Agency
600 West 10th Avenue Vancouver, BritishColumbia, Canada V5Z 4E6 and M.R.Amy Archaeology Student Simon Fraser University Burnaby, British Columbia, Canada V5A 1 S6
KUSIQ: AN ESKIMO LIFE HISTORY FROM THE ARCTIC C O A S T OF ALASKA. By WALDO BODFISH, S R . Fairbanks: University of Alaska Press, Oral Bibliography Series, No. 2, 1991. 330 p., index, footnotes, photos, maps, appendices (interpretive notes by Inupiat [Eskimo] speakers and researchers), bib., glos-sary. Softbound. US$21 .OO. This book contains the life history of an Inupiaq (Eskimo) elder from Wainwright, an arctic coastal village in Alaska. A narrated life's story is transcribed, compiled and edited into a history of a person in his cultural and geographical context, preserving a record of an era. It is a colourful account that retains the personal and idiosyncratic flavour of the teller, bringing a unique and interesting perspective, refreshingly native and rich. The purpose of the book is to preserve the historyof a region and a people through the memories of an individual. The stories are full of references to famous people and incidents of the early 1900s, bringing alive history in a different way: through the eyes of the local indigenous person, a northerner. The narrative is enriched by extensive chapter notes from two other collaborators in this oral history. For the reader seeking greater detail, it is there in succinct explanations and clarifications. But the narrative style is maintained in the notes, and one should read them along with the main text. This book will appeal to the general reader and to those interested in anthropology, culture and language, wildlife and life "on the land." It is an excellent introduction to the North and the Inupiat, especially for the reader looking for a glimpse into Inuit culture and history and the changes in the North over the past century. It is also a glimpse into the history of whaling from the point of view of a whaler's child. Waldo Bodfish, the narrator, says: "I'm a half-breed: father White man and mother real Eskimo. My mother's first husband was named Kusiq, and when I was born in 1902 they named me after him. . . ." 
There are little gems of cultural history spread throughout the book as well, dropped in as points of interest. Kusiq knows how to appeal to the audience;he is a good storyteller: 
The shaman, angarkuq, wanted to have my mother's first husband for his son-in-law, but Kusiq didn't want to many the shaman's daughter. That'swhytheshaman killed him. Mymotherlovedthatman,and that's why she named me after him. 
The book is divided into twelve chapters, each one titled after some point of change in Kusiq's life. Slightly over half the book is narrative; the balance is notes, appendices, glossaries and other sec-tions the reader will find as interesting as the main text. 
Kusiq represents a welcome new wave in literature, the expres-sions of cultural awakenings among native American cultures, the attempt t