ors of their huts, always at a safe distance. Recalling a children's [game] I had learned in one of the coast villages, I stooped down, tapped the ground with my fingers and chanted the refrain. The children drew nearer and nearer, and one or two with broad smiles began to imitate me. Then with a piece of string, I made some of their own cat's cradle figures and held them out for their inspection. This turned the scale. Five minutes later a laughing crowd surrounded me…The natives could hardly believe that I was a white man, and kept asking my [guides] who I was, how I came to speak their language and where I had learned their game."Jenness, Diamond and Stuart E. Jenness, 2008. "Through Darkening Spectacles: Memoirs of Diamond Jenness" Mercury Series, History Paper 55, Gatineau, QC: Canadian Museum of Civilization, p.33

Canadian Arctic Expedition

In 1913, Jenness was invited to join the government-funded Canadian Arctic Expedition (CAE) that was led by two Arctic explorers - Vilhjalmur Stefansson and R.M. Anderson.Collins, Henry B. & Taylor, William E. Jr. "Diamond Jenness (1886–1969)" . He would be one of the two anthropologists on board; the other was Henri Beuchat.Helmer, James. "Arctic Profiles ". Department of Archaeology. Calgary, Canada. In June of that year, having barely recuperated from yellow fever contracted while in New Guinea, Jenness boarded the whaling vessel Karluk along with 12 other scientists. The ship steamed up the British Columbia coastline towards Nome, Alaska, where they met up with Stefansson who had purchased two 60-foot schooners to assist in the expedition work. The three vessels then proceeded towards their rendezvous point, Herschel Island, just east of the mouth of the Mackenzie River, Northwest Territories.

The rendezvous never took place. On 12 August, the Karluk became locked in the sea ice. Stefansson, with his secretary McConnell, Jenness, Wilkins (later Sir Hubert Wilkins), and two Eskimos, set out to procure meat for the crew. While they were ashore, the Karluk drifted westward to the East Siberian Sea, where it was eventually crushed in the ice off Wrangel Island. Thirteen of the crew perished on board, including Henri Beuchat.Natural Resources Canada. Diamond Jenness profile , nrcan.gc.ca; accessed February 3, 2018.

With the ship gone, the hunting party set off on foot towards Barrow, Alaska (Utqiaġvik), 150 miles away, hoping to meet the two other vessels involved in the expedition: the Mary Sachs and Alaska. In Barrow, they learned that the two ships had anchored in Camden Bay, making it their winter base. Jenness remained behind and spent the first winter at Harrison Bay, Alaska, where he learned how to speak the Northern Eskimo language, and compiled information about their customs and folklore. The next year, in 1914, assisted by interpreter Patsy Klengenberg (son of Gremnia, a Tikigaq from Tigerah (Point Hope), Noatak-Kobuk, and the trader Christian Klengenberg), Jenness commenced studying the Copper Inuit, sometimes called the Blond Eskimos, in the Coronation Gulf area.Canadian Museum of History, "The People of the CAE" This group of people had had very little contact with Europeans, and Jenness, now the only anthropologist, was solely in charge of recording the aboriginal way of life in this area.

Jenness spent two years with the Copper Inuit and lived as an adopted son of a hunter named Ikpukhuak and his shaman wife Higalik (name meaning Ice House). During that time he hunted and travelled with his "family," sharing both their festivities and their famine. By living with this Inuit family and partaking in their everyday experiences, Jenness did something that was "not often employed by other ethnologists" at the time: he lived with the people who were the subjects of his fieldwork. As Morrison in his "Arctic Hunters: The Inuit and Diamond Jenness" states: "His goal was to understand the Copper Inuit on their own terms, not in relation to some preconceived 'ladder of creation' with Europeans perched firmly at the top."Morrison, David "Arctic Hunters: The Inuit and Diamond Jenness", 1992, Canadian Museum of Civilization, pp. 14-15

Summarizing his first year with the Copper Inuit, Jenness wrote:

:::"By Isolating myself among the Eskimos ... I had followed their wanderings day by day from autumn round to autumn. 
:::I had observed their reactions to every season, the disbanding of the tribes and their reassembling, the migrations 
:::from sea to land and from land to sea, the diversion from sealing to hunting, hunting to fishing, fishing to hunting, 
:::and then to sealing again. All these changes caused by their economic environment I had seen and studied; now, 
:::with a greater knowledge of the language, I could concentrate on other phases of their life and history."Jenness, Diamond "The People of the Twilight", 1928f, p. 191

As anthropologist de Laguna noted years later, his "accomplishments are the more remarkable when it is remembered that Jenness had to perform not only his own duties but [also] those of his unfortunate colleague, Beauchat."de Laguna, Frederica. "Diamond Jenness, C. C. 1886-1969". American Anthropologist (New Series), v 73, February, 1971. Furthermore, Jenness's camera, anthropometric instruments, books, papers and even heavy winter clothing had all remained on board the ill-fated Karlak.Richling, Barnett (2012). In Twilight and in Dawn: A Biography of Diamond Jenness (Volume 67) (McGill-Queen's Indigenous and Northern Studies). Montreal, Quebec: McGill-Queen's University Press. p.70 ISBN 978-0773539815

The CAE scientists kept daily diary logs, took extensive research notes, and collected samples which were shipped or brought back to Ottawa. Jenness collected a variety of ethnological materials from clothing and hunting tools to stories and games, and 137 wax phonographic cylinder song recordings he had made. (The latter's musical transcription and analysis by Columbia University's Hellen H. Roberts with Jenne