part of the team today.

LAK: Zama Dance School was founded with the goal of empowering young children from South Africa townships to use ballet as a way to express themselves. Students and faculty have also explicitly addressed racism and anti-Blackness is ballet. Can you tell me about this legacy and how Zama Dance School views its current social and political role in South Africa?

AW: Zama Dance School first opened its doors in 1984 when the school's founder, the late Arlene Westergaard, became aware of a lack of dance opportunities (specifically classical ballet) in the Black townships. The school started in a church hall with just six dancers, but after Arlene teamed up with Pick n Pay's Raymond Ackerman* five years later in 1989, a trust was established, and a purpose-designed studio was built in the heart of Gugulethu.

Today Zama serves 100 students annually. Its vision to provide a safe learning space whilst introducing students to classical ballet and other dance forms remains the same. Students come to structured ballet classes three times a week and are equipped with dance togs and ballet shoes at the beginning of each year and receive a meal through our feeding scheme after each class.

Although there are other dance schools in Cape Town that offer ballet to children in under-resourced communities such as ours, Zama Dance School is one of the few that operates within the neighborhood where its students actually live. This allows us to forge a close relationship with our immediate community. Our school exists to offer good ballet training and provide a safe venue where our children can spend their time after school, do homework and have a nutritious meal. Any social or political role is played incidentally.

*Until 2010 Raymond Ackerman was the chairman of one of Africa's largest supermarket chains, Pick n Pay. Zama Dance School is funded largely by the Ackerman Family Foundation. Mr. Ackerman celebrates his 90th birthday this year and is the Chairman of the Zama Dance School Trust Board of Trustees.

LAK: How do you convey some of these more abstract lessons—about body positivity, health, and self-expression—when you teach dance classes?

AW: One of the best things about dance is that most boxes get ticked automatically. Multi-tasking, punctuality, cleanliness, teamwork, self-respect, body/brain fine tuning, appreciation of art, drama, and music. Just the opportunity to attend properly constructed ballet classes and to watch productions and take part in competitions teaches our students a plethora of valuable life skills

LAK: How does Zama Dance School work to change perceptions of Black dancers and Black bodies in the ballet community as a whole? And how do you incorporate this important work into the everyday activities at the school?

AW: Zama is a dance school, which, while concentrating on the Russian Ballet teaching method, also incorporates pointe work, tap, contemporary, body conditioning, and African fusion classes. Because we are involved in the Western Cape's dance community, both amateur and professional, our dancers are exposed to many artists from a range of backgrounds and cultures.

The school itself has never tried to make statements about Black bodies or dancers of color. The school's mission is to provide a safe space whilst instilling a sense of pride, confidence, and respect to our young South African citizens.

LAK: How do the parents of your students engage with ballet? Do you often work directly with parents and other community members?

AW: This is a good question. When Arlene started the school in the thick of apartheid, the entire mood of the country was dark and forcibly divided. Over the years most Zama parents have become steadily more involved and interested, which is fantastic for all of us. We have an annual watching day that is well attended and an end of year concert that is truly packed to the roof. Many of our parents have severe financial constraints and depend on Zama's lun