---
title: 12 Shortest Actors in Hollywood: Verne Troyer, Danny DeVito and More
author: Angilene Gacute
date: 2024-05-31
---
12 Shortest Actors in Hollywood: Verne Troyer, Danny DeVito and More

Patton Oswalt – 5'3"

Patton Oswalt may be shorter than other stars, but it hasn't stopped his career from taking off.

He marked his acting debut in a Seinfeld episode before starring in more shows, including Parks and Recreation, Kim Possible, Modern Family and Brooklyn Nine-Nine.

Oswalt, who is 5'3", currently appears in the hit TV series The Sandman after joining the cast of Ghostbusters: Frozen Empire.

Rob Schneider – 5'3"

Rob Schneider began his career as an actor and stand-up comedian in the 1980s. He notably became a cast member and writer for Saturday Night Live while working on other films and series.

The Daddy Daughter Trip star's latest project was in the 2023 animated musical film Leo.

Prince – 5'2"

For decades, Prince savored the success of his career as a musician and actor until his death in April 2016. Even after his passing, he has managed to touch people's hearts with his posthumous releases: Originals, Piano and a Microphone 1983 and Welcome 2 America, among others.

The Academy-winning singer was 5'2".

Danny DeVito – 4'10"

Danny DeVito has become one of the industry's notable stars. At 4'10", the Emmy-winning star has successfully starred in films and series like Taxi, The War of the Roses, Batman Returns, Matilda, and Jumanji: The Next Level.

He also dabbled in several voice roles over the years, from the 1997 film Hercules to the 2018 animated flick Smallfoot.

Peter Dinklage – 4'5"

Peter Dinklage, 54, has made his height — 4'5" — one of his best assets.

The Game of Thrones star has been open about the attention he receives.

"Being my size, I get second looks quite often. My whole life I've had stares," he told The Times. "Now there's an ownership to someone looking at me or approaching me. It's because of something positive. It's not just my size. It's the work I've done that has afforded them a second look."

According to The Guardian, Dinklage was born with achondroplasia, a form of skeletal dysplasia that causes shorter bones and stature.

Deep Roy – 4'4"

Standing at 4'4", Deep Roy received praise from fans when he played the roles of over 100 Oompa Loompas in the 2005 film Charlie and the Chocolate Factory. He also appeared in hit shows like Star Trek, Doctor Who and The X-Files.

Want OK! each day? Sign up here!

Kiran Shah – 4'1"

Regarded by the Guinness World Records as the world's shortest stuntman, Kiran Shah has proven his acting skills in different blockbuster films. Over the years, he became part of hit flicks and often served as other actors' stunt doubles.

While he was born with a hormone deficiency, Shah called himself "perfectly formed" even when he "stopped growing."

"Without a great performance the character would neither be convincing nor entertaining to watch," Star Wars creature effects supervis