LAK: You are now the director of Zama Dance School, which was founded in 1984 by the visionary teacher and leader Arlene Westergaard. Arlene Westergaard appointed you the director of Zama Dance School before her death. How did that come about?

AW: I began teaching at Zama Dance School in January 2008. I soon realised it was going to be an all-or-nothing situation and that juggling my various other teaching engagements would be a challenge. It was a tough first year. I had never taught children under the age of 13 until then and suddenly there I was, literally dropped in the deep end. As I focused more of my time on Zama, it became easier. Arlene encouraged me to get more involved in the day to day running of the school and I soon felt rooted in the Zama family. Towards the end of 2010, Arlene announced her retirement and asked me to take her place as head of the school. I knew these would-be big shoes to fill, and that I would need help. So, I approached former CAPAB Ballet Principal dancer Leanne Voysey and asked her to join me. Leanne and I had danced in the ballet company together in the 90's and we had both taught classes at UCT's evening ballet school. We had also worked on a number of 'high stress' projects together and I knew that I wanted her by my side and that she would be a huge asset to Zama. I must also mention Vuyokazi, the school's secretary. Thank goodness for Vuyo who worked alongside Arlene for many years. She is our longest serving employee and a valuable part of the team today.

LAK: Zama Dance School was founded with the goal of empowering young children from South Africa townships to use ballet as a way to express themselves. Students and faculty have also explicitly addressed racism and anti-Blackness is ballet. Can you tell me about this legacy and how Zama Dance School views its current social and political role in South Africa?

AW: Zama Dance School first opened its doors in 1984 when the school's founder, the late Arlene Westergaard, became aware of a lack of dance opportunities (specifically classical ballet) in the Black townships. The school started in a church hall with just six dancers, but after Arlene teamed up with Pick n Pay's Raymond Ackerman* five years later in 1989, a trust was established, and a purpose-designed studio was built in the heart of Gugulethu.

Today Zama serves 100 students annually. Its vision to provide a safe learning space whilst introducing students to classical ballet and other dance forms remains the same. Students come to structured ballet classes three times a week and are equipped with dance togs and ballet shoes at the beginning of each year and receive a meal through our feeding scheme after each class.

Although there are other dance schools in Cape Town that offer ballet to children in under-resourced communities such as ours, Zama Dance School is one of the few that operates within the neighborhood where its students actually live. This allows us to forge a close relationship 