---
title: Taj-Ul-Masajid
author: Arushidaga
date: 2017-08-08
---
Published Time: 2017-08-08T08:32:07+00:00
Taj-Ul-Masajid – HISTORY OF ARCHITECTURE
===============
Skip to content
HISTORY OF ARCHITECTURE
Menu

Home
About
Contact

Taj-Ul-Masajid
Posted by arushidagaonAugust 8, 2017 November 26, 2017
The meaning of Taj-ul-Masjid translates to 'The Crown of Mosques,' and the magnificent architecture reflects just that. The interior area of this place is about 430,000 square feet and has a capacity of 175,000 people. It is the largest mosque in the country, and happens to be the second largest mosque in Asia. Made of red stone, the mosque is situated by the lake referred to as the Motia Talab. The Mosque is quite huge and has a pink facade topped by two 18-storey high octagonal minarets with 3 onion-shaped,marble domes.
The entrance is followed by a really impressive hallway with attractive pillars and marble flooring resembling Mughal a0rchitecture. It has a courtyard with a large tank in the centre. It has a double-storeyed gateway with four recessed archways and nine cusped multifold openings in the main prayer hall. The Quibla wall in the prayer hall is carved with eleven recessed arches and has fine screens of trellis work. The massive pillars in the hall hold 27 ceilings through squinted arches of which 16 ceilings are decorated with ornate petaled designs. The acoustics are brilliant and Its architecture is not only remarkable but is also similar with the architecture and decorations, of the second largest mosque of India,Jama Masjid of Delhi.
The architecture clearly depicts the aesthetically pleasing mughal era and architecture.
Share this:

Click to share on X (Opens in new window)X
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)Facebook

Like Loading...
Related
Chhatri : Moosi Rani ki ChhatriNovember 20, 2017
ARCHITECTURAL ELEMENTS OF DILWARA TEMPLEAugust 11, 2017
ART DECO ARCHITECTURE – Regal CinemasNovember 15, 2017
Post navigation
Previous Post First blog post
Next Post Building Type in The Indus Valley Civilisation
Leave a comment Cancel reply
Δ
Search for: 
Archive

November 2017
September 2017
August 2017

Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information

Comment
Reblog

Subscribe Subscribed

 HISTORY OF ARCHITECTURE

Sign me up 
 Already have a WordPress.com account? Log in now.

 HISTORY OF ARCHITECTURE
Subscribe Subscribed
Sign up
Log in
Copy shortlink
Report this content
View post in Reader
Manage subscriptions
Collapse this bar

Loading Comments...
Write a Comment... 
Email (Required) Name (Required) Website 

Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use. 
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy
%d
Design a site like this with WordPress.com
Get started

Advertisement
Advertisement