---
title: All About Tori Spelling and Dean McDermott's Kids
author: Alex Gurley
date: 2025-06-09
---
Tori Spelling and Dean McDermott are parents to five children.

Just a year after tying the knot in 2006, Spelling and McDermott welcomed their first baby, Liam. In 2008, their first daughter, Stella, joined the family. They welcomed their second daughter, Hattie, in 2011 and their second son, Finn, in 2012. McDermott is also dad to son Jack, 25, from his previous marriage to Mary Jo Eustace.

Spelling and McDermott hit a rough match shortly after welcoming Finn. But after working through some of their issues, they found out they were pregnant again — a "symbol" for a new phase of their marriage, according to Spelling. Their youngest child, Beau, arrived in early 2017 and helped the couple "start over" and look at their marriage from a new perspective.

However, in June 2023, McDermott announced his split from Spelling in a now-deleted post on Instagram.

"It's with great sadness and a very very heavy heart that after 18 years together and 5 amazing children, that @torispelling and I have decided to go our separate ways and start a new journey of our own," he wrote. "We will continue to work together as loving parents and guide and love our children through this difficult time."

McDermott entered rehab for prescription drug and alcohol abuse shortly after making the surprise announcement, and Spelling officially filed for divorce in March 2024. She requested sole physical custody and joint legal custody of their five children.

Here's everything to know about Tori Spelling and Dean McDermott's kids.

Liam Aaron McDermott, 18

Spelling and McDermott's eldest child, Liam Aaron McDermott, was born on March 13, 2007, in Los Angeles. After a challenging labor, a rep for the couple shared that the new family was "really happy" and that Spelling was healthy after undergoing a cesarean section.

Liam's early life was chronicled on his parents' reality show Tori & Dean: Home Sweet Hollywood. From his birth to major life events like birthdays and holidays, cameras followed his family until he was almost 5 years old.

Since then, Spelling and McDermott have shared important milestones in Liam's life on social media, including his graduation from elementary school in 2019. In one post, Spelling celebrated her eldest child, calling him "kind, clever, smart, resilient, driven, funny, and amazing" while sharing photos from the ceremony. Unfortunately, middle school proved to be challenging for Liam, whom Spelling says endured "so much bullying" during his first year at his new school. In addition to allegedly being called "unmotivated" and "lazy" by a school administrator, Spelling shared that he was bullied so much that it began to affect him physically.

"He was bullied to the point that he developed severe emotional based headaches and stomach aches," Spelling shared. "He continued to be bullied so bad we had to leave."

Recently, Liam has experimented with different hair colors, like blue and orange, as seen on his Instagram. He even attended Pride celebrations with his father and stepbrother Jack McDermott in 2022.

Stella Doreen McDermott, 17

Spelling and McDermott welcomed their second baby, Stella Doreen, on June 9, 2008, at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in L.A. Following her birth, Spelling's rep shared that the couple's baby girl was "healthy" and the family was "resting comfortably." Stella's name has special meaning for the couple, as her first name comes from one of Spelling's favorite books and her middle name is in honor of McDermott's late mother.

"I used to be obsessed with the book Great Expectations, and Estella was the main character," Spelling said. "So I told that to Dean and he was like, 'That's a great name.' We were kind of playing back and forth, calling her Estella. It wasn't fitting, though. And then one day, Dean was like, 'What about Stella?' I said, 'That's it!' "

Like her big brother, Stella was also featured on her parents' reality show Tori & Dean: Home Sweet Hollywood. The cameras captured some of her milestone moments, including Stella's extravagant 1st birthday party. Through the years, Stella has had plenty more over-the-top parties, all planned by Spelling.

The actress has referenced her daughter as a "Jill-of-all-trades" — and according to Stella's Instagram bio, it's completely true. Stella calls herself a baker, crafter, model, actress, animal whisperer and anti-bullying activist. In addition to all that, she's also an aspiring makeup artist, having shared some of her most impressive looks on social media. In honor of Valentine's Day, she created a bright pink look with hearts around her eyes. On Halloween, she shared a photo of her gory makeup and costume.

Like her older brother, Stella struggled with bullying at school. In fact, Spelling says that Stella had to switch schools after administrators at her elementary school didn't step in to do enough about the situation. McDermott later explained that the bullying, which included insults about Stella's weight and sexual comments, led the preteen to have PTSD and other physical ailments like headaches and stomach issues.

Stella's health seemed to improve after enrolling in a school that addressed her bullying concerns. On top of that, she landed her first modeling gig with the brand Petite 'n Pretty and got the chance to appear on MasterChef Celebrity Family Showdown.

"How Stella got her groove back… thx to @petitenpretty - Her 1st modeling shoot as a teen girl," Spelling wrote on Instagram. "Stella is an amazing human. Heart of gold & always leads w/kindness. She's innovative & creative and full of fire. Which is why as a mom it was so painful to see a young woman's fire dimmed bc of bullying."

On Jan. 11, 2023, Spelling revealed on her Instagram Story that Stella was again suffering from health concerns. The actress shared a photo of her daughter lying in a hospital bed wearing a gown and face mask.

"The hits just keep coming😭," Spelling wrote with the photo.

A few days later, Spelling appeared on SiriusXM's Jeff Lewis Live and divulged additional details about Stella's health.

"She went to the ER, now twice, and was diagnosed with a hemiplegic migraine," she explained. "One side of you goes numb, it almost kind of mimics what a stroke would be."

Hattie Margaret McDermott, 13

In 2011, Spelling and McDermott announced the arrival of their second daughter Hattie Margaret. Their little girl was born on Oct. 10, 2011, weighing 6 lbs., 14 oz. and measuring 20 inches long. The couple decided not to find out the infant's sex until the baby was born and say they were "really surprised" to find out Hattie was a girl.

Gaining another sibling proved to be an adjustment for Stella and Liam, with Spelling sharing that Stella "was like, 'Wait a second' " when Hattie arrived. Thankfully, it didn't take long for the siblings to become close and for Stella to enjoy having a little sister.

"Now [Stella] loves it because her thing is that she picks out her clothes — she styles her," Spelling said on The Talk.

Even as they've grown up, Spelling says the sisters have remained close, calling them "soul sisters" in a sweet Instagram post celebrating National Sisters Day. She added that she "couldn't be more proud" of the duo and loved their "special bond," which had only gotten closer over time.

For Hattie's 8th birthday in 2019, Spelling called the little girl her "unique free spirited fiery soul strong willed artistic indigo child." Like her mom, she loves all things horror and has a "passion for the dark and mystical." Spelling also says Hattie has a passion for all things creative — and appears to have developed an interest in makeup just like her older sister!

In October 2022, Spelling celebrated her daughter's 11th birthday with a Halloween-themed party. The proud mom shared a video compilation from the party on Instagram, which featured clips of the birthday girl hitting a skeleton piñata and blowing out candles on her haunted house cake. "Hattie's adorably spooky Halloween Birthday … this is 11 🖤," Spelling captioned the video.

Finn Davey McDermott, 12

Spelling and McDermott welcomed their fourth baby, Finn Davey, on Aug. 30, 2012, following a challenging pregnancy. While pregnant, Spelling was hospitalized and put on bed rest after dealing with placenta previa, a condition where the placenta completely or partially covers the opening of the uterus. Baby Finn was delivered via c-section at 37 weeks and unfortunately, Spelling faced complications following the delivery. She underwent emergency surgery but thankfully recovered.

She later shared that the challenging pregnancy had a lasting effect on her: Even long after Finn was born, she was very cautious with him.

"Dean says I'm actually more protective of Finn than I was of the other three," Spelling told PEOPLE in 2013. "Because of what Finn and I went through medically — it was a rough pregnancy — I may not consciously know it, but at home I'm usually behind him going, 'Wha! Wha! Wha!' And Dean is like, 'Please stop gasping!' "

Despite trying to be extra careful with Finn, Spelling said he was "rambunctious," calling him the "little bruiser of the family." She added that he was quite the opposite of his brother Liam and joked that Finn often ran around "terrorizing everything."

Spelling added, "Liam was a super mellow baby and with Finn, if you turn around for one second, his finger is in the socket and he's pulling the blinds around himself. He is that kid."

For his 9th birthday in 2021, Spelling called Finn her "miracle baby" who has a "ginormous" heart and a "beautiful soul" — and loves sharing fun facts with the family. "We twin inside and out in so many ways," Spelling wrote on Instagram. "Except, I aspire to be the human he is. You are magical Finn Davey."

Beau Dean McDermott, 8

On March 2, 2017, Spelling and McDermott welcomed their youngest child, Beau Dean. Spelling's pregnancy went more smoothly than her last and both mom and baby were healthy upon his arrival.

"We are over the moon in love with baby Beau," Spelling told PEOPLE. "He is a true blessing and his brothers and sisters were overjoyed to meet him! We are all truly grateful for our big beautiful and healthy family."

Spelling says that Beau came at the perfect time for their family, arriving when they "all needed a little hope." She said that he immediately became the "sunshine of life" for them, and as a "wise little old soul," he kept everyone laughing.

Over the years, Beau has often appeared on his parents' social media, where they show off his sweet personality and love for animals. He also loves school and sports and often hits the golf course with his dad. McDermott has said that Beau's golf skills are so good, he refers to him as "Beau Beau Watson" — partially because both Beau and golf star Bubba Watson are lefties.

On Beau's 6th birthday in 2023, Spelling shared an Instagram Reel that featured images from her pregnancy as well as snaps of Beau as an infant. "Can't believe my baby is 6 today," she wrote in the caption before adding, "He brings such joy and laughs into my life, his dad's life, and all of his siblings," and noting, "He completes all of us."

In March 2023, Beau and McDermott enjoyed a fun father-son outing at the PAW Patrol 10th anniversary event in Los Angeles.

"Beau and I had a great time at the @nickelodeon studios today," the doting dad wrote on Instagram. "We watched the special 10th anniversary episode. We met Rubble, Chase, and Skye!! We had snacks and finished the day off with a coloring competition. I think Beau crushed it. I played it safe and stayed in the lines, but Beau really went with bold colors and expressed himself and explored his space with colors."

Jack Montgomery McDermott, 25

McDermott is also a father to his son Jack, whom he welcomed with his ex-wife Mary Jo Eustace in 1998.

Spelling has a close relationship with her stepson, though she's shared that she and Jack went through periods of distance during the "years of awkwardness" when he was a teen. On Oct. 7, 2019, she honored Jack's 21st birthday, posting a touching tribute on Instagram. She began the lengthy post by recalling when she first met Jack at the age of 6.

"Ok I'm gonna embarrass you for a second @thejackmonty … I've known this guy since he was almost 7. I loved when we met bc he had no idea who I was. And, I don't mean tori spelling,but the woman his dad was dating," she wrote.

"He was going thru so much and his mom and dad were trying their best to navigate a very difficult situation for a boy his age. Divorce," she added.

The actress went on to say she and Jack "bonded over dogs, his rabbit DIY school project, tag, hide and seek, and video games."

She also wrote about his coming out, explaining, "I was so proud of his confidence. He was who he was and he was proud of it. And, then we bonded again. We found each other on a new level with a whole new respect for each other."

On Dec. 5, 2022, Jack called out Eustace on Instagram, complaining about how she talked about his family on McDermott and Eustace's podcast Ex's & Uh-Ohs.

"Since my parents divorce in 2006, I have rarely spoken out as I preferred to stay out of it. Unfortunately, due to my mothers recent decision to spread information about my Dad, Step mom and my siblings I am no longer able to stay silent," Jack wrote.

"About a week ago, my Dad made the decision to step away from his podcast with my mother "Ex's & Uh-Ohs". He chose to leave due to negative comments about our family and consistent attempts to malign his character. He also chose to leave due to the producer of the show betraying his trust and divulging private information," he continued.

"For 17 years my father has atoned for mistakes He's made in the past. He has grown so much as a person. Up until a week ago, our two families where [sic] living in harmony," Jack added. "With this podcast, it has driven a wedge between our two families and created a divide I am not capable of mending. Sadly, I'm not sure it can be."

The following day, a source told PEOPLE that Eustace continues to "respect" her son's "right to express himself" after he alleged she caused a family strain.

A source close to Eustace told PEOPLE: "I'm sure it's very hurtful for Mary Jo to hear that her son is talking negatively about her. Unfortunately, the facts stand that it was Dean who was unfaithful and walked out on Mary Jo and the kids and then again unfaithful to Tori."

"It was Mary Jo that did 90 percent of the parenting and has been a loving and consistent parent. With that said, she respects Jack's right to express himself. And always will."