ured together as a musical act. It's safe to say that the sisters' careers have been closely related to one another, and that was also true of their work on Hellcats alongside Ashley Tisdale, another former Disney Channel star.

The show followed Aly's character as she used her gymnastic skills to become part of a rather fiercely competitive and drama-filled cheerleading squad. The show only lasted a single season, but that gave Aly and AJ plenty of time to be on screen with one another, and kept their sisterly bond a featured aspect of both of their careers.

Jeffrey Dean Morgan And Hillarie Burton

Jeffrey Dean Morgan has made appearances in pretty much every popular television show. Currently, he's Negan, the big bad on The Walking Dead, and in that role, he's managed to call up a lot of menace from inside him. Morgan has also made appearances on the CW in Supernatural.

On that show, Morgan played the role of Sam and Dean Winchester's father -- the man who inspired them to begin their life hunting demons. Morgan's wife Hillarie Burton was also a regular on the CW, playing Peyton on One Tree Hill.

The two have never acted on the same CW show, but both were on the network at roughly the same time.

Of course, that was long before they were married in 2014, so maybe the CW was one of the first things they talked about.

Jessica And Richard Harmon

Actors who are siblings in real life are commonly cast to play siblings on television. After all, that's the best way to make it seem like the relationship is an authentic one. In the case of Jessica and Richard Harmon, though, the siblings actually play unrelated characters in the world of The 100.

Jessica plays Niylah, a character who shows up in the third season and has been with Clarke on a couple of different occasions. Richard played John Murphy, a recurring character during the show's first two seasons who was bumped up to a major role during the third season.

Whatever went on behind the scenes that led both of these siblings to star on the show is unclear, but it must be nice for them both to have a friendly face on set.

Jensen Ackles And Danneel Ackles

Supernatural is one of the longest-running shows in television history, and Jensen Ackles has been one of the show's stars for its entire run. Although Ackles's co-star Jared Padalecki met his wife on the set of Supernatural, things happened a bit differently for Ackles and his wife Danneel. Jensen and Danneel started dating in 2009 and were married in 2010, but it wasn't until 2018 that Danneel showed up on Supernatural, playing a faith healer.

Interestingly, Danneel once tweeted that if the show made it to its 13th season, which is currently airing, that would be when she decided to guest star. It turns out, that's exactly what happened.

In their private life, Jensen and Danneel live in Dallas, Texas with their daughter and a pair of twins.

Katie Cassidy And Patrick Cassidy

You're far more likely to know Katie Cassidy than you are her uncle, especially if you keep up with the Arrowverse shows on the CW. Katie plays Laurel Lance -- the Black Canary -- on Arrow, and has also played the role in crossover events on The Flash and Legends of Tomorrow. After Black Canary's passing, Cassidy returned to the show as an evil version of her character.

While Katie Cassidy may be familiar, her uncle Patrick Cassidy is only known to CW fans because of a role he had as a non-super character on Smallville. There, he played Henry Small, Lana Lang's father, and a lawyer who had a strong hatred for the Luthor family. The relatives never overlapped on the network, but they were both there, at least for a second.

Brandon Routh And Courtney Ford

Brandon Routh has spent large swaths of his career playing superheroes, as he currently does on the CW's Legends of Tomorrow.

Routh has been married to Courtney Ford for more than 10 years.

The couple met when Routh was a waiter, and they've been together ever since.

Routh isn't the only one who has appeared on Legends of Tomorrow. Ford has also made appearances on the show as Nora Darhk, a character which started on Arrow before migrating over to Legends of Tomorrow. Now, Ford gets the chance to work on the same show as her husband. That might be an interesting change of pace, especially since the two of them have spent so many years working separately. Now, they see each other at home and when they get to work.

Joseph Morgan And Persia White

Coworkers get together all the time. It's only natural when you consider how much time they spend together, and that's doubly true of actors, who often have incredibly intense shooting schedules, and get to know one another fairly well as a result.

These two actors met when they were filming the third season of The Vampire Diaries. Joseph Morgan played Klaus, one of the show's original vampires, and Persia White was playing Abbie Bennett Wilson, a witch who was the mother of Bonnie Bennett.

Morgan was eventually given his own spin-off, The Originals, and White only appeared in a handful of episodes of The Vampire Diaries, but the connection between them was enough to lead to a relationship outside of work. The two kept their relationship a secret for quite a while, but they were eventually married and have been now for over three years.

Alexa Vega And Carlos Pena Jr.

Alexa Vega may still be best known for her work in Spy Kids, but she was also one of the stars of The Tomorrow People, a short-lived CW show that focused on superheroes.

Vega's show may not have lasted long on the CW, but she's hopeful that her husband's project on the network will last longer.

Vega's husband Carlos Pena Jr. is currently starring in Life Sentence, a new CW show that just premiered this year. The two actors aren't on the same show, and they weren't even on the network at the same time, but it's nevertheless true that both have been employed by the CW, which feels almost like a strange coincidence.

There's a lot of TV out the