---
title: 20 Writers From Around the World on the Olympics
date: 2016-08-05
---
20 Writers From Around the World on the Olympics

What to Look Forward to And Which Sports are Like Writing

Despite the hurdles confronting this year's Brazil Olympics, the Games have a wonderful way of bringing people around the world together. We asked twenty authors hailing from all over the globe—from Syria to Spain, from Ecuador to Equatorial Guinea, from Russia to Pakistan to Iceland and many more—about their home countries' athletic heroes and literary legacies surrounding sports. Some local traditions are familiar to most Olympics viewers—soccer, cycling, and boxing were popular choices—though some, like Uzbek Buzkashi, in which horse-riders fight to grab and then place a goat carcass in a goal, have yet to become canonical. We also asked what sporting event is most apt as a metaphor for the writing process. Diving, equestrian dressage, fencing, and pentathlon all made the cut, but the sport that most unites the writing endeavor across borders is the marathon: arduous, chafing, vomit-inducing, but ultimately triumphant (unless you end up like the world's first marathoner, and die from the effort). Happy reading, and enjoy tonight's cerimônia de abertura!

Morocco: Fouad Laroui

What event will you be following most closely during this year's Summer Olympics in Brazil?

Something to do with horses (I don't know the technical term). There is a guy from Morocco competing. The horse himself is French… no, wait, horses have no nationality. So, who wins, the man or the beast? Who should get the medal? Whose flag… It's a philosophical question, isn't it? Therefore, it's the perfect excuse to watch sport.

What sport has the most interesting literary tradition in your home country?

Horses. Galloping horses. It's called t'bourida in Moroccan Arabic. The word comes from baroud, which means powder: The guy on top of the horse usually holds a rifle and shoots in the air at the end of the gallop (no, they don't shoot their horses). This sport has been practiced for centuries. When the French colonized Morocco, between 1912 and 1956, they changed its name: t'bourida became fantasia. Why? I have no idea. Anyway, it figures in many Moroccan stories, written or oral.

Which of your country's athletes would make the most compelling hero/ine of a novel or subject of a biography?

Not a horse, but a lady: Nawal El Moutawakel, a former hurdler, who won the inaugural women's 400 metres hurdles event at the 1984 Summer Olympics, in Los Angeles. She was the first female Arab, Muslim, African, etc. (a lot of adjectives here), to become an Olympic champion. Later she became the Minister of Sports in Morocco. Today she is kind of running the CIO. A nice little biography in waiting… I cannot write it: Nawal is a good friend of mine. Not enough distance.

David Foster Wallace once compared writing to wrestling sheets of balsa wood in a high wind. Which Olympic sport is most like your e