---
title: All About Tori Spelling and Dean McDermott's Kids
author: Alex Gurley
date: 2025-06-09
---
Tori Spelling and Dean McDermott are parents to five children.

Just a year after tying the knot in 2006, Spelling and McDermott welcomed their first baby, Liam. In 2008, their first daughter, Stella, joined the family. They welcomed their second daughter, Hattie, in 2011 and their second son, Finn, in 2012. McDermott is also dad to son Jack, 25, from his previous marriage to Mary Jo Eustace.

Spelling and McDermott hit a rough match shortly after welcoming Finn. But after working through some of their issues, they found out they were pregnant again — a "symbol" for a new phase of their marriage, according to Spelling. Their youngest child, Beau, arrived in early 2017 and helped the couple "start over" and look at their marriage from a new perspective.

However, in June 2023, McDermott announced his split from Spelling in a now-deleted post on Instagram.

"It's with great sadness and a very very heavy heart that after 18 years together and 5 amazing children, that @torispelling and I have decided to go our separate ways and start a new journey of our own," he wrote. "We will continue to work together as loving parents and guide and love our children through this difficult time."

McDermott entered rehab for prescription drug and alcohol abuse shortly after making the surprise announcement, and Spelling officially filed for divorce in March 2024. She requested sole physical custody and joint legal custody of their five children.

Here's everything to know about Tori Spelling and Dean McDermott's kids.

Liam Aaron McDermott, 18

Spelling and McDermott's eldest child, Liam Aaron McDermott, was born on March 13, 2007, in Los Angeles. After a challenging labor, a rep for the couple shared that the new family was "really happy" and that Spelling was healthy after undergoing a cesarean section.

Liam's early life was chronicled on his parents' reality show Tori & Dean: Home Sweet Hollywood. From his birth to major life events like birthdays and holidays, cameras followed his family until he was almost 5 years old.

Since then, Spelling and McDermott have shared important milestones in Liam's life on social media, including his graduation from elementary school in 2019. In one post, Spelling celebrated her eldest child, calling him "kind, clever, smart, resilient, driven, funny, and amazing" while sharing photos from the ceremony. Unfortunately, middle school proved to be challenging for Liam, whom Spelling says endured "so much bullying" during his first year at his new school. In addition to allegedly being called "unmotivated" and "lazy" by a school administrator, Spelling shared that he was bullied so much that it began to affect him physically.

"He was bullied to the point that he developed severe emotional based headaches and stomach aches," Spelling shared. "He continued to be bullied so bad we had to leave."

Recently, Liam has experimented with