---
title: Distinguished Authors
date: 2000-01-01
---
Each year, in the spring, a distinguished author gives a public reading, conducts a workshop or roundtable, and dines with students and faculty. Among other prestigious honors, these authors have won the Pulitzer Prize, the National Book Award, the National Book Critics Circle Award, and the MacArthur Genius Grant. Initiated in 2004, the event usually caps a robust series of readings and workshops on campus. It is made possible by a Grinnell alum who prefers to remain anonymous. For more than fifteen years, he and his wife have supported programming that allows the Grinnell community to hear from, and interact with, the nation's most prominent writers. Their generosity also gave birth to the popular six-week short courses taught by faculty from the University of Iowa Writers' Workshop. Distinguished authors have included W.S. Merwin, Marilynne Robinson, John Edgar Wideman, Ana Castillo, Adrienne Rich, Edward P. Jones, Dorothy Allison, Mark Doty, Natasha Trethewey, Tracy K. Smith, Alison Bechdel, Edwidge Danticat, James McBride, Marlon James, and Tyehimba Jess.

Past Distinguished Authors

2020-2021: Alexander Chee

Alexander Chee is the author of the novels Edinburgh and The Queen of the Night, and the essay collection How To Write An Autobiographical Novel, all from Houghton Mifflin Harcourt. He is a contributing editor at The New Republic, and an editor at large at VQR. His essays and stories have appeared in The New York Times Magazine, T Magazine, The Sewanee Review, The Yale Review, and Guernica, among others, and anthologized in the 2016 and 2019 Best American Essays. He is the winner of a 2003 Whiting Award, a 2004 NEA Fellowship in prose, and a 2021 US Artists Fellowship, as well as the Randy Shilts Prize in gay nonfiction, the Paul Engle Prize, the 2018 One Story Magazine's Mentor of the Year Award, and residency fellowships from the MacDowell Colony, the VCCA, Civitella Ranieri and Amtrak. He is an associate professor of English and Creative Writing at Dartmouth College.

2019-2020: Ada Limon

Event cancelled due to Covid#19.

2018-2019: Tyehimba Jess

Tyehimba Jess is the author of two books of poetry, Leadbelly and Olio. Olio won the 2017 Pulitzer Prize, the Anisfield-Wolf Book Award, The Midland Society Author's Award in Poetry, and received an Outstanding Contribution to Publishing Citation from the Black Caucus of the American Library Association. It was also nominated for the National Book Critics Circle Award, the PEN Jean Stein Book Award, and the Kingsley Tufts Poetry Award. Leadbelly was a winner of the 2004 National Poetry Series. The Library Journal and Black Issues Book Review both named it one of the "Best Poetry Books of 2005." Jess is a Professor of English at College of Staten Island.

2017-2018: Marlon James

Marlon James won the 2015 Man Booker Prize for Fiction for A Brief History of Seven Killings, making him the first Jamaican author to take home the U.K.'s most