---
title: Eleanor Catton - Wikipedia
author: Authority control databases
date: 2009-08-09
---
honorific_suffix: NZL MNZM 100%
alt: A woman with shoulder-length brown hair standing in front of a neutral background, wearing a white top, green cardigan, and blue jeans. She holds her hands together behind her back.
birth_date: 1985
birth_place: London, Ontario, Canada
occupation: Novelist
nationality: New Zealand
notableworks: The RehearsalThe LuminariesBirnam Wood
awards: 2013 Booker Prize
module: yes, Eleanor_catton_bbc_radio4_womans_hour_09_09_2013.flac, Eleanor Catton's voice, speech, from the BBC programme Woman's Hour, 9 September 2013.
education: University of Canterbury (BA)Victoria University of Wellington (BA Hons, MA)University of Iowa (MFA)
name: Eleanor Catton
birth_name: Eleanor Frances Catton

Eleanor Catton (born 1985) is a New Zealand novelist and screenwriter. Born in Canada, Catton moved to New Zealand as a child and grew up in Christchurch. She completed a master's degree in creative writing at the International Institute of Modern Letters. Her award-winning debut novel, The Rehearsal, written as her Master's thesis, was published in 2008, and has been adapted into a 2016 film of the same name. Her second novel, The Luminaries, won the 2013 Booker Prize, making Catton the youngest author ever to win the prize (at age 28) and only the second New Zealander. It was subsequently adapted into a television miniseries, with Catton as screenwriter. In 2023, she was named on the Granta Best of Young British Novelists list.

Early life

Catton was born in Canada in 1985, where her father was a graduate student completing his doctorate at the University of Western Ontario on a Commonwealth scholarship. Her mother Judith is a New Zealander from Canterbury, while her father, philosopher Philip Catton, comes from Washington State. Her family returned to New Zealand when she was six years old, and Catton grew up in Christchurch. Her mother was a children's librarian at the time, and the family had no TV; Catton was an avid reader and writer from an early age.

When she was aged 13 the family spent a year living in Leeds while her father was on a sabbatical at the university, and Catton attended local comprehensive Lawnswood School which she referred to as "amazing" and "gloriously rough". Back in Christchurch she attended Burnside High School, studied English at the University of Canterbury, and completed a Master's degree in Creative Writing at the International Institute of Modern Letters, Victoria University of Wellington. She is related to historian Bruce Catton.

Literary career

The Rehearsal

Catton's debut novel, The Rehearsal, was published in 2008 when she was 22. Written as her Master's thesis, it deals with reactions to an affair between a male teacher and a girl at his secondary school. The Rehearsal won the 2009 Betty Trask Award in the UK, and was longlisted for the Orange Prize and on the shortlist of the Guardian First Book Awa