John McGee

Admiral John McGee (Jamey Sheridan) is the father of Timothy McGee. He appears in "Squall", where it is revealed that he has cancer. In "House Rules", ADM McGee passes away.

Sarah McGee

Sarah McGee (portrayed by Sean Murray's real-life stepsister Troian Bellisario) is the younger sister of Timothy McGee. She makes two quick cameos in Seasons 2 and 3 before making a full appearance in "Twisted Sister".

Tess Monroe

Tess Monroe (Sarah Clarke) is an FBI Senior Special Agent. After working with Tobias Fornell, Monroe joins NCIS in the hunt for British spy Jacob Scott during season thirteen. She participates in a shootout with the NCIS team that results in the intentional death of Trent Kort. Executive Producer Gary Glasberg described Monroe as "full of fire and cynicism and sarcasm and wit and energy and is extremely experienced". Tess has been divorced multiple times, but has no children. She "thinks of her team as her family. She's no-nonsense on the outside, but has a big heart underneath with a belief in honor, justice and doing what's right. She'll fight to protect the values she holds dear, and her team, with determination and a bit of sarcasm".

Leroy Jethro "LJ" Moore

Leroy Jethro "LJ" Moore (Billy Dee Williams) is the childhood friend of Jackson Gibbs and his future wife Ann — Jethro Gibbs's parents. They were all friends growing up together. Jackson and LJ both fell in love with Ann, but Jackson married her. LJ is "The Namesake" of Jethro Gibbs, and according to Jethro, it was LJ who inspired him to join the Marine Corps as a teenager. LJ stands next to Jethro Gibbs at Jackson's funeral in Season 11's final episode "Honor Thy Father".

Thomas Morrow

Thomas Morrow (Alan Dale) is the Director of NCIS until the beginning of season three. He first appears in the NCIS two-part pilot episodes, "Ice Queen" and "Meltdown", before making his official debut in the season one episode, "Yankee White", with his final appearance as NCIS Director in the season three opener "Kill Ari (Part I)", when he leaves to accept an appointment as a Senior Division Chief in the Department of Homeland Security. He appears in several episodes during seasons one and two, but unlike his replacements, Directors Shepard and Vance, Morrow himself is not part of the main cast, and is credited as either a recurring character or a guest star. He has less direct involvement with the team's cases than either of his successors (exceptions being matters of terrorism and national security), and seems to spend much of his time in MTAC monitoring NCIS' global presence. While he seems to like Gibbs, he is less tolerant of Gibbs' personal style and methods than Jenny or Vance; he has a deeply serious, almost stern demeanor, and Gibbs only ever refers to him as "sir". This is probably due to Gibbs being a former Gunnery Sergeant / Scout-Sniper in the U.S. Marine Corps. and Morrow being a former Rear Admiral in the U.S. Navy. He reappears in his Homeland Security positio