---
title: Vakko - Wikipedia
author: Authority control databases ISNI VIAF
date: 2012-04-10
---
name: Vakko
logo: File:Vakko_Turkish_fashion_company.png
logo_size: 100px
image_caption: Vakko department store in December 2022
foundation: 1934
founder: Vitali Hakko
location_city: Istanbul
location_country: Turkey
key_people: Cem Hakko (President) Jaklin Guner (CEO)
industry: Fashion
products: Luxury goods
revenue: $424 million (2023)
homepage: vakko.com

Vakko is a Turkish luxury fashion company founded by Vitali Hakko (d. 2007) survived by his son Cem Hakko. It produces and retails textiles, leather goods, and accessories.Karen M. Morin, Jeanne Kay Guelke – 2007 – Aperçu – Autres éditionsTurkey – Page 192 Rosie Ayliffe, Marc S. Dubin, Terry Richardson – 2003Istanbul City Guide

Vakko also operates luxury department stores under the Vakko name at Zorlu Center, İstinye Park, Akmerkez, Vadi Istanbul, and Akasya malls and on Bağdat Caddesi in Suadiye (Asian side); in Ankara at Atakule and Armada malls, and in İzmir at Hilltown and Istinye Park İzmir malls. It also operates boutiques under the Vakkorama, Vakko Couture, Vakko Wedding, Vakko L'Atelier, and Vakko Home names, as well as Vakko Outlet locations."Stores", Vakko official website

In 1962, Vakko's eight-story flagship store on İstiklal Avenue in Beyoğlu was the first modern department store in Turkey."Heritage", Vakko website It operated until 2006, when it became a branch of Mango."Vakko Beyoğlu'ndan gidiyor yerine en büyük Mango geliyor" ("Vakko leaves Beyoğlu and is replaced by the biggest Mango"), Hürriyet, 29 June 2006

History

Vakko was founded in 1934 by Vitali Hakko under the brand name Şen Şapka () as a small hat seller in Sultanhamam. In 1937, with his older brother Albert Hakko becoming a partner, Vitali Hakko changed the name of the company to Vakko and established Turkey's first silk dyeing workshop in Kurtuluş, Şişli. After Şen Şapka transformed into Vakko, it started to produce scarves with Turkish silk, cotton and wool. Over time, Vakko turned to ready-to-wear to produce more than hats, scarves, and printed fabrics. Here, customers were introduced for the first time to modern store practices such as bargain-free and promotional sales, and replacement of sold goods.

In 1962, Hakko opened a large 8-storey store, including a cafe and fashion gallery, in Beyoğlu (a.k.a. Pera), at the time, the most important modern shopping districts in Istanbul. In 1969, the first Vakko Factory was built in Merter measuring 40,000 m2 and employment was provided. In 1973, the second Vakko store opened in Ankara, and Vakko began to further expand its retail network with the Vakko Boutique sales points it opened one after the other. Six years later, in 1979, the third Vakko store opened in İzmir. There was an increase in the popularity of the Vakko brand with advertising campaigns and fashion shows carried out throughout Turkey.

In September 1979 Vakko opened up its first shop outside Turkey, in Ol