d Bond Street, London, selling merchandise 90% Vakko-produced, including items by Sevim Cavdar, and launched by a rooftop fashion show at the Régine Club.

In 1981, on the 100th birthday of Mustafa Kemal Atatürk, a fashion and art show called "Anatolian Sun" was organized, bringing together Anatolian cultures and Western fashion concepts. The show, which was also exhibited in Rome, Vienna, Brussels, Paris, and London on outside Turkey, introduced Vakko in Europe as the representative of contemporary Turkish fashion.

In 1982, Vakkorama, one of Turkey's first youth stores, opened in Taksim, Istanbul. In order to bring New York fashion to Istanbul, Vakkorama introduced a new team called V2K Designers ('V2K Designers') in 2000 with the slogan "Two cities, one brand". Over time, V2K Designers has acquired designers and brands from other fashion cities such as Paris, London and Milan, as well as New York. Today, it is Turkey's first concept store where different world brands meet under the same roof. Creations of other designers and brands such as Rick Owens, Gareth Pugh, Alexander Wang, Hussein Chalayan, Preen, Erdem, Elizabeth & James, Band of Outsider, and Rag & Bone are available at V2K Designers.

In 2006, Vakko opened in the then-new Kanyon Shopping Mall in Levent, in Istanbul's modern Central Business District (the store has since closed and opened in the newer, larger Zorlu Center nearby). At the same time, the famous fashion designer Zac Posen's specially interpreted creations for Vakko were introduced under the label "Zac Posen @Vakko". In the same year, world-famous top model Gisele Bündchen became the face of Vakko's campaign. Since 2008, Vakko has been continuing its operations in its new factory, which is headquartered in Merter and spread over an area 2 times the size of its old factory, with screen printing and ready-made clothing production units, logistics facilities, social use areas, and work offices.

In 2009, Vakko Home, launched, offering a selection of home furnishings and accessories, domestics (bed linens and towels), etc.

In 2010, Vakko Fashion Center, designed by New York-based REX and shared with media company Power Media, was opened in Nakkaştepe, Üsküdar (Asia), consisting of all management units and creative staff offices, as well as showrooms, the Vitali Hakko Creative Industries Library, auditorium, gallery and museum. In the same year, Vakko Wedding House Akaretler, which brings together evening dresses, tuxedos, accessories, underwear and hats suitable for all kinds of ceremonies for the bride and groom's families, opened in a single store. The first culture and arts festival, Istancool, which brought together many famous artists from different disciplines, was held in 2010. Many important names from the fashion and art worlds were hosted as guests, including the famous style icon Daphne Guinness, hat designer Philip Treacy, and pianist Michael Nyman. In 2011, Vakko Fashion Center was chosen as the "Best Workspace 