Han Kang composes this meditative, transcendental book while on a writers' residency in Warsaw. The white of the snow mixes with the white of memory.

Writing becomes a purifying act: reconstructing her sister's death means starting to live. The resulting reflections follow the rhythm of prayer, perhaps a secular, yet deeply human prayer. The only way to mourn, and at the same time continue to live ethically, is the flash of memory, in its endless fragments.

A nation's mourning

In Human Acts, this autobiographical mourning becomes the mourning of an entire nation.

Human Acts narrates the massacre in Gwangju, Kang's birthplace of May 1980, when hundreds, perhaps thousands, of citizens and university students, protesting against the authoritarian regime of South Korea's "most vilified" military dictator, Chun Doo-Hwan, were murdered by the army.

Paradoxically, precisely in the midst of these brutal acts what is most valuable emerges: solidarity, dignity, the strength to continue – and above all, the great responsibility of surviving and remembering.

"My novels explore human suffering," Han Kang once said. When she wrote about the Gwangju massacre, she was "aware that readers should, in turn, be prepared […] to experience such suffering firsthand themselves".

The ethical scope of the novel counteracts the collective amnesia imposed by censorship. It makes room for a chorale – a sacred song – in which the living are confused with the dead, the present with the past, memory with censorship, the word with the ineffability of a violence that is supposedly inhuman. Could surviving perhaps be a form of silent consent?

But as in The White Book, the silence crumbles in the writing, becoming too loud to bear. The role of the writer is to continue to create, remember, communicate even the incommunicable, despite it all. Even in shreds. Even silence. Even when humanity seems to fail us.

For this – and much more – Han Kang richly deserves this year's Nobel Prize for Literature.