---
title: 'My novels explore human suffering': Nobel Prize winner Han Kang writes with empathy for vulnerable lives
date: 2024-10-10
---
South Korean writer Han Kang has won the 2024 Nobel Prize for Literature, "for her intense poetic prose that confronts historical traumas and exposes the fragility of human life". The 53-year-old is the first South Korean writer to win the prize, and only the 18th woman (of 121 winners to date). She is also a musician, and interested in visual art.

Her best known novel, The Vegetarian (published in Korea in 2007), was her first to be translated into English, in 2015. It won the Man Booker International Prize in 2016, with the prize split between Han Kang and her translator, Deborah Smith.

At the time, Smith's translation sparked fervid debates about its accuracy. But this is the beauty of literary translation as an act of creation: it's an imaginative exercise, not a literal one, and Han Kang has stood by her translator.

Han Kang has published six works in English so far. The Vegetarian was her international breakout. Then there was Human Acts, The White Book, Europa and Greek Lessons. The short work Convalescence was published in a bilingual edition in 2013.

Her latest novel We Do Not Part, about a writer researching the 1948-49 Jeju uprising (against the Cold War division of the Korean peninsula) and its impact on the family of her friend will be published in 2025.

Taking up space in the world

A macabre tale of daily brutality, The Vegetarian is a novel in three acts, and follows the choice of a "completely unremarkable" woman to give up meat, triggering a spiral of unprecedented abuse from family members. While they claim to be thinking of her health, actually they oppose her non-conformism. Eventually, considering herself to be a plant, she refuses any nourishment apart from water and the sun's rays.

The Nobel committee praised Han's "physical empathy for the vulnerable, often female lives" of her characters.

Greek Lessons is narrated by a woman who has lost her mother, her son (to the custody of his father) and is losing her ability to speak, and a man who is losing his connection to place and family, and his eyesight. The man teaches ancient Greek; the woman becomes his student.

Like much of Han Kang's other work, Greek Lessons explores, through evocative and laconic prose, the fragile and unstable space between what can be expressed and shared, and what remains incommunicable, beyond the possibility of words. It shows the power of the human search for connection: even among, or perhaps because of, grief and loss.

Reviewing Greek Lessons, The Guardian concluded: "thank goodness Han Kang's literary voice takes up space in the world in the way her female characters struggle to".

The autobiographical The White Book – dazzling, touching, and at times mystical – was shortlisted for the Man Booker International Prize in 2018. It is an art book, an extended poem and a graphically white book about all 