---
title: Screen Rant
author: Joseph Allen
date: 2018-04-13
---
The CW's slate of programming is a fascinating one. Many of its shows are actually fairly well-regarded, whether they take place inside of the network's sprawling Arrowverse or not. Part of the reason these shows have been so successful is because of their excellent casting and captivating stars.

Although the CW has a number of great shows on the air and a really great talent pool, they more than occasionally like to cast actors who are actually related to one another in real life, or are married and have decided to form a new family with one another.

Whether these two relatives show up on the same show or not depends on the specifics of the situation, but as many of the couples on this list are married, it's often the case that the two of them met while they were filming together. Other times, the relationship between the two actors was the reason that one of them was brought onto a show.

Whatever the reasons might be, it's clear that the CW has no fears about keeping things close. After all, if one actor from a family works out, who's to say that others won't, too?

Here are 15 CW Stars That Only True Fans Know Are Actually Family.

Stephen And Robbie Amell

This one is among the most readily apparent on this list, in part because Robbie and Stephen Amell share a last name. The cousins have also made homes for themselves on the CW, where they have both played superheroes.

Stephen has been Oliver Queen on Arrow for several years, and Robbie has played Firestorm on The Flash. Robbie also played a teleporting hero on Tomorrow People, which has been off the air for a few years now.

In addition to sharing an employer, at least sometimes, the two cousins also look quite a bit alike, and are each quite handsome. Of course, there a number of families who have spawned multiple successful actors because, at the end of the day, part of the reason actors are famous is because of their looks, which the Amells have in spades.

Jared Padalecki And Genevieve Cortese

Jared Padalecki has had a pretty long and steady career on television, and he's even had the chance to work with his future wife.

Padalecki and Genevieve Cortese actually met on the set of Supernatural when Cortese was a recurring guest during the show's fourth season. Cortese played Ruby, a demon who seduces Padalecki's character and causes a rift to form between Sam and Dean.

Although the affair between Sam and Ruby proved to be short-lived, Padalecki and Cortese's relationship turned out to be a pretty stable one. The couple eventually got married, and they now live in Austin, Texas with their three children. Supernatural is a show with plenty of tragedy, but things seemed to have ended in a happily ever after for Padalecki and Cortese.

Aly And AJ Michalka

Aly and AJ Michalka have been famous since a fairly young age. Both actresses made their debuts on the Disney Channel when they were still quite young, and they also to