---
title: 20 Best Book Awards Of 2025
author: To Self-Publish Or
date: 2025-02-21
---
20 Best Book Awards Of 2025

As an author, it's rewarding to have your work and achievements recognized.

Receiving a major book award and becoming an "award-winning author" may just be the thing to launch your author career to new heights.

But what are the major awards for each book category?

Below we've put together a list of the best book awards out there, including some links to their author websites, and showcased recent winners.

Major Book Awards And Recent Winners

Some book awards are presented yearly. Some every two years. We've listed the most recent winners for the time we wrote this post. Check back yearly for new updates.

Nobel Prize in Literature

nobelprize.org

This award is one of the most prestigious in the field of literature. It's awarded based on overall remarkable contribution. Presented annually since 1901, the Swedish Prize was established as per the will of Alfred Nobel. Writers are nominated for the prize. They must have been nominated at least twice before to qualify for the award.

Recent Winner

Previous Winner (2023)

Pulitzer Prize

Another highly prestigious award, the Pulitzer is presented by Columbia University and awarded annually. Established in 1917, the award is named after Joseph Pulitzer and continues to reign as a coveted award for distinguished writing across multiple genres.

Recent Winners

Previous Winners (2023)

Booker Prize

This award is presented for the best novel written in English and published in Ireland or the United Kingdom. Previously called the Man Booker Prize, it has been awarded since 1969.

Recent Winner

Previous Winner (2023)

International Booker Prize

A counterpart to the Booker Prize, the International Booker Prize was established in 2005. Originally presented biennially, in 2016 it had become an annual occurrence. Awarded to a single book published in Ireland or the United Kingdom, the work has to have been published in or translated into English. The prize is shared and split between the author and the translator of the winning book.

Recent Winner

Previous Winner (2023)

National Book Award

Established in 1950, these awards recognize and celebrate the best of American literature. The National Book Foundation is an NPO that has presented it since 1989. These awards are major across all genres and occur annually.

Recent Winners

previous Winners (2023)

Neustadt International Prize for Literature

This award is sponsored by both World Literature Today and the University of Oklahoma. Since 1970 the award has aimed at acknowledging a writer's works as a whole and an individual book. It is awarded every two years.

Recent Winner

previous Winner (2023)

National Book Critics Circle Award

Started in 1976, these awards are presented annually in America. They aim to highlight the most remarkable books across genres of the previous year. Nominated pieces must be published in English in the U.