---
title: Diamond Jenness - Wikipedia
author: Authority control databases
date: 2005-02-07
---
name: Diamond Jenness
alt: Colourized studio portrait of Diamond Jenness, circa 1950
birth_date: 10 February 1886
birth_place: Wellington, New Zealand
death_date: 29 November 1969
death_place: Chelsea, Quebec, Canada
resting_place: Beechwood Cemetery, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada
known_for: His comprehensive early studies of Canada's First Nation's people and the Copper Inuit.
education: University of New Zealand (from the constituent college in Wellington, then called Victoria University College)Balliol College, University of Oxford
employer: National Museum of Canada
occupation: Anthropologist
predecessor: Dr. Edward Sapir
spouse: Frances Eilleen Jenness
children: John L. Jenness, Stuart E. Jenness, Robert A. Jenness

Diamond Jenness, (February 10, 1886, Wellington, New Zealand – November 29, 1969, Chelsea, Quebec, Canada) was one of Canada's greatest early scientistsGranatstein, J., 1998. "Sir William Logan", Maclean's magazine, vol. 111, no. 26, (July 1), pp. 38–40. and a pioneer of Canadian anthropology.

Early life (1886–1910)

Family and childhood

Diamond Jenness was the second youngest son in a middle-class family of ten children. His father's profession was that of a watchmaker/jeweler, though he also installed several clocks in municipal building towers in New Zealand. The family was encouraged to read, learn music, and engage in sports. Richling, in his biography "In Twilight and in Dawn," writes that the young Jenness "was a proficient outdoorsman and an accomplished sharpshooter," skills that helped prepare him for his experience in the arctic years later.

Education

At an early age, Jenness showed proficiency for learning. He earned his first scholarship at the age of twelve by entering a composition competition for children under fourteen. In those days, in New Zealand, secondary education was only available to the wealthier families, so this scholarship enabled Jenness to complete high school and three years of college. He finished his final year of secondary education with six prizes: mathematics, science, Latin, French and English, and was named top student. He attended Lower Hutt School, then Wellington College. He and sister May were the only two siblings to proceed on to college.

Jenness graduated from the University of New Zealand (from the constituent college then called Victoria University College) (B.A. 1907; M.A. 1908), receiving first class honors for both degrees. Then, when 22 years old, he received a scholarship that allowed him to pursue further education at Balliol College, University of Oxford (Diploma in Anthropology, 1910; M.A. 1916).

Career (1911–1948)

Field work – Northern D'Entrecasteaux

From 1911 to 1912, as an Oxford Scholar, he studied a little-known group of people on the D'Entrecasteaux Islands in eastern Papua New Guinea. Jenness comments:

:::"They peered at me from out-of-the-way corners, or through the doors of their huts, always at a safe distance. Recalling a children's [game] I had learned in one of the coast villages, I stooped down, tapped the ground with my fingers and chanted the refrain. The children drew nearer and nearer, and one or two with broad smiles began to imitate me. Then with a piece of string, I made some of their own cat's cradle figures and held them out for their inspection. This turned the scale. Five minutes later a laughing crowd surrounded me…The natives could hardly believe that I was a white man, and kept asking my [guides] who I was, how I came to speak their language and where I had learned their game."Jenness, Diamond and Stuart E. Jenness, 2008. "Through Darkening Spectacles: Memoirs of Diamond Jenness" Mercury Series, History Paper 55, Gatineau, QC: Canadian Museum of Civilization, p.33

Canadian Arctic Expedition

In 1913, Jenness was invited to join the government-funded Canadian Arctic Expedition (CAE) that was led by two Arctic explorers - Vilhjalmur Stefansson and R.M. Anderson.Collins, Henry B. & Taylor, William E. Jr. "Diamond Jenness (1886–1969)" . He would be one of the two anthropologists on board; the other was Henri Beuchat.Helmer, James. "Arctic Profiles ". Department of Archaeology. Calgary, Canada. In June of that year, having barely recuperated from yellow fever contracted while in New Guinea, Jenness boarded the whaling vessel Karluk along with 12 other scientists. The ship steamed up the British Columbia coastline towards Nome, Alaska, where they met up with Stefansson who had purchased two 60-foot schooners to assist in the expedition work. The three vessels then proceeded towards their rendezvous point, Herschel Island, just east of the mouth of the Mackenzie River, Northwest Territories.

The rendezvous never took place. On 12 August, the Karluk became locked in the sea ice. Stefansson, with his secretary McConnell, Jenness, Wilkins (later Sir Hubert Wilkins), and two Eskimos, set out to procure meat for the crew. While they were ashore, the Karluk drifted westward to the East Siberian Sea, where it was eventually crushed in the ice off Wrangel Island. Thirteen of the crew perished on board, including Henri Beuchat.Natural Resources Canada. Diamond Jenness profile , nrcan.gc.ca; accessed February 3, 2018.

With the ship gone, the hunting party set off on foot towards Barrow, Alaska (Utqiaġvik), 150 miles away, hoping to meet the two other vessels involved in the expedition: the Mary Sachs and Alaska. In Barrow, they learned that the two ships had anchored in Camden Bay, making it their winter base. Jenness remained behind and spent the first winter at Harrison Bay, Alaska, where he learned how to speak the Northern Eskimo language, and compiled information about their customs and folklore. The next year, in 1914, assisted by interpreter Patsy Klengenberg (son of Gremnia, a Tikigaq from Tigerah (Point Hope), Noatak-Kobuk, and the trader Christian Klengenberg), Jenness commenced studying the Co