B.C. Cancer Agency
600 West 10th Avenue Vancouver, BritishColumbia, Canada V5Z 4E6 and M.R.Amy Archaeology Student Simon Fraser University Burnaby, British Columbia, Canada V5A 1 S6
KUSIQ: AN ESKIMO LIFE HISTORY FROM THE ARCTIC C O A S T OF ALASKA. By WALDO BODFISH, S R . Fairbanks: University of Alaska Press, Oral Bibliography Series, No. 2, 1991. 330 p., index, footnotes, photos, maps, appendices (interpretive notes by Inupiat [Eskimo] speakers and researchers), bib., glos-sary. Softbound. US$21 .OO. This book contains the life history of an Inupiaq (Eskimo) elder from Wainwright, an arctic coastal village in Alaska. A narrated life's story is transcribed, compiled and edited into a history of a person in his cultural and geographical context, preserving a record of an era. It is a colourful account that retains the personal and idiosyncratic flavour of the teller, bringing a unique and interesting perspective, refreshingly native and rich. The purpose of the book is to preserve the historyof a region and a people through the memories of an individual. The stories are full of references to famous people and incidents of the early 1900s, bringing alive history in a different way: through the eyes of the local indigenous person, a northerner. The narrative is enriched by extensive chapter notes from two other collaborators in this oral history. For the reader seeking greater detail, it is there in succinct explanations and clarifications. But the narrative style is maintained in the notes, and one should read them along with the main text. This book will appeal to the general reader and to those interested in anthropology, culture and language, wildlife and life "on the land." It is an excellent introduction to the North and the Inupiat, especially for the reader looking for a glimpse into Inuit culture and history and the changes in the North over the past century. It is also a glimpse into the history of whaling from the point of view of a whaler's child. Waldo Bodfish, the narrator, says: "I'm a half-breed: father White man and mother real Eskimo. My mother's first husband was named Kusiq, and when I was born in 1902 they named me after him. . . ." 
There are little gems of cultural history spread throughout the book as well, dropped in as points of interest. Kusiq knows how to appeal to the audience;he is a good storyteller: 
The shaman, angarkuq, wanted to have my mother's first husband for his son-in-law, but Kusiq didn't want to many the shaman's daughter. That'swhytheshaman killed him. Mymotherlovedthatman,and that's why she named me after him. 
The book is divided into twelve chapters, each one titled after some point of change in Kusiq's life. Slightly over half the book is narrative; the balance is notes, appendices, glossaries and other sec-tions the reader will find as interesting as the main text. 
Kusiq represents a welcome new wave in literature, the expres-sions of cultural awakenings among native American cultures, the attempt to redefine the native world in written form, to recast history, a history for too long the domain of the white (or as we more politely say in the North, "Outside") system. But this is no insensible ram-bling of an old man. The team of narrator and collaborators has done an excellent job of putting into print the sharp memories of a keen observer of his world. Unlike those dusty tomes of rugged British explorers of the harsh Arctic, Kusiq does mention by name the white travellers through the North. He does not say "and some White Man" but tells who it was. He also mentions by name his own people, and this must make this book a treasure for Inupiat from his region.
REVIEWS 1 203 
I think this book is a treasure for all who are interested in the North and its peoples.It is well printed on acid-free paper for the col-lector and should be a welcome addition to any library. Perhaps we will soon see other works from this Oral Biography Series.
Lloyd N . Binder Assistant Regional Superintendent Economic Development and Tourism Government of the Northwest Territories Fort Smith, Northwest Territories, Canada XOE OPO
ARCTIC ODYSSEY: THE DIARY OF DIAMOND JENNESS, 1913-1916. Edited by STUARTE. JENNESS. Hull: Canadian Museum of Civilization, 1991. 902 p., 208 illus. (maps, photos and draw-ings), appendices, index, bib. Hardbound. Cdn$65.00. This superbly edited volume brings into public view the complete arctic diary of Diamond Jenness, written during his three-year odyssey as the ethnologist for the southern party of the Canadian Arctic Expedition. This monumental volume is clearly the result of a labor of love on the partof Stuart Jenness, who started the typing and editing of the diary's three volumes in the early 1970s. As Stuart Jenness states in the preface, he had two major goals in publishing his father's diary in its entirety: "(1) to make its contents available for all persons interested in Eskimo activities, culture, and living conditions in northern Alaska and Canada early in this century; and (2) to offer a revealing glimpse of my father's personality and character, through his daily accounting of his adventures during the three years he was in the Arctic" (p. xx). Although this book does not have the poignancy and simple elegance of Jenness's The People of the Twilight (1928) or Dawn in Arctic Alaska (1957), both of which were based largely upon the anthropologist's daily journals, Arctic Odyssey constitutes an important primary document about one of Canada's premier eth-nologists at work in a region of the Arctic just prior to the dramatic influx of traders, trappers, missionaries, and government administra-tors, who would ultimately and inextricably change the face of Copper Eskimo life. After undertaking graduate studies in anthropology at Oxford University (1908-11) and completing a year's fieldwork in Papua New Guinea, Jenness had returned to New Zealand in late 1912, where he was recovering from malaria, a disease that would plague him fro