pper Inuit, sometimes called the Blond Eskimos, in the Coronation Gulf area.Canadian Museum of History, "The People of the CAE" This group of people had had very little contact with Europeans, and Jenness, now the only anthropologist, was solely in charge of recording the aboriginal way of life in this area.

Jenness spent two years with the Copper Inuit and lived as an adopted son of a hunter named Ikpukhuak and his shaman wife Higalik (name meaning Ice House). During that time he hunted and travelled with his "family," sharing both their festivities and their famine. By living with this Inuit family and partaking in their everyday experiences, Jenness did something that was "not often employed by other ethnologists" at the time: he lived with the people who were the subjects of his fieldwork. As Morrison in his "Arctic Hunters: The Inuit and Diamond Jenness" states: "His goal was to understand the Copper Inuit on their own terms, not in relation to some preconceived 'ladder of creation' with Europeans perched firmly at the top."Morrison, David "Arctic Hunters: The Inuit and Diamond Jenness", 1992, Canadian Museum of Civilization, pp. 14-15

Summarizing his first year with the Copper Inuit, Jenness wrote:

:::"By Isolating myself among the Eskimos ... I had followed their wanderings day by day from autumn round to autumn. 
:::I had observed their reactions to every season, the disbanding of the tribes and their reassembling, the migrations 
:::from sea to land and from land to sea, the diversion from sealing to hunting, hunting to fishing, fishing to hunting, 
:::and then to sealing again. All these changes caused by their economic environment I had seen and studied; now, 
:::with a greater knowledge of the language, I could concentrate on other phases of their life and history."Jenness, Diamond "The People of the Twilight", 1928f, p. 191

As anthropologist de Laguna noted years later, his "accomplishments are the more remarkable when it is remembered that Jenness had to perform not only his own duties but [also] those of his unfortunate colleague, Beauchat."de Laguna, Frederica. "Diamond Jenness, C. C. 1886-1969". American Anthropologist (New Series), v 73, February, 1971. Furthermore, Jenness's camera, anthropometric instruments, books, papers and even heavy winter clothing had all remained on board the ill-fated Karlak.Richling, Barnett (2012). In Twilight and in Dawn: A Biography of Diamond Jenness (Volume 67) (McGill-Queen's Indigenous and Northern Studies). Montreal, Quebec: McGill-Queen's University Press. p.70 ISBN 978-0773539815

The CAE scientists kept daily diary logs, took extensive research notes, and collected samples which were shipped or brought back to Ottawa. Jenness collected a variety of ethnological materials from clothing and hunting tools to stories and games, and 137 wax phonographic cylinder song recordings he had made. (The latter's musical transcription and analysis by Columbia University's Hellen H. Roberts with Jenness's word translations can be found in the monograph "Songs of the Copper Eskimos" (1925).Roberts, Helen Hefron and Diamond Jenness "Songs of the Copper Eskimos. Report of the Canadian Arctic Expedition, 1913-18, Southern Party 1913-16, Volume XIV" Ottawa : F.A. Acland, 1925 Eight of Jenness's Copper Inuit recordings can be heard on CKUG's website. The radio station is located in Kugluktuk, Nunavut, Canada. The website also features a short video demonstrating how Jenness recorded these songs with the technology available in 1913.)

Copper Inuit subgroups studied by Jenness

Several subgroups were reported on by Jenness and they include:
*Akuliakattagmiut
*Haneragmiut
*Kogluktogmiut
*Pallirmiut
*Puiplirmiut
*Uallirgmiut (Kanianermiut)

Origin of the Copper Eskimos and their copper culture

In his article in Geographical Review, Jenness described how the Copper Inuit are more closely related to tribes of the east and southeast in comparison to western cultural groups, basing his conclusion on archaeological remains, materials used for housing, weapons, utensils, art, tattoos, customs, traditions, religion, and also linguistic patterns. He also considered how the dead are handled: whether they are covered by stone or wood, without any artifacts, as in the west, or "as in the east, laid out on the surface of the ground, unprotected but with replicas of their clothing and miniature implements placed beside them.".Jenness, Diamond. "Origin of Copper Eskimos and Their Copper Culture." Geographical Review. 13(4): 540–551.

Jenness characterized the "Copper Eskimos" as being in a pseudo-metal stage, in between the Stone and Iron Ages, because this cultural group treated copper as simply a malleable stone which is hammered into tools and weapons. He discussed whether the use of copper arose independently with different cultural groups or in one group and was then "borrowed" by others. Jenness goes on to explain that indigenous communities began to use copper first and following this, the Inuit adopted it. He cited the fact that slate was previously used among Inuit and was replaced by copper at a later time after the indigenous communities had begun to use it.

First World War

The scientific members of the Canadian Arctic Expedition completed their mission and left the north in 1916. Jenness was assigned an office in the Victoria Museum of Ottawa and instructed to write up his expedition findings. After six months of feverishly working on his collections, notes, and initial reports for the government, Jenness, concerned about the events in Europe, enlisted in the World War 1 and served in France and Belgium. Being of slight build and short of stature, he was assigned to duties other than direct combat.Jenness, Diamond and Stuart E. Jenness, 2008. "Through Darkening Spectacles: Memoirs of Diamond Jenness" Mercury Series, History Paper 55, Gatineau, QC: Canadian Museum of Civilization, pp. 67-68.

Field work and writing

In December 1918, Jenness applied a