---
title: Taj-ul-Masajid - Wikipedia
date: 2007-03-12
---
building_name: Taj-ul-Masajid
image_upright: 1.4
map_type: India Madhya Pradesh
map_size: 250
map_relief: 1
map_caption: Location of the mosque and dargah in Madhya Pradesh
location: Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh
country: India
coordinates: 23.263 77.393 region:IN-MP dms inline, title
religious_affiliation: Sunni Islam
rite: Deobandi movement(Tablighi Jamaat)
status: Mosque
functional_status: Active
website: darululoomtajulmasajid.in
architecture_type: Mosque architecture
architecture_style: Indo-Islamic, Mughal
funded_by: |}}
established: }}
groundbreaking: 1887
year_completed: 1958
capacity: 175, 000 worshippers
interior_area: 23000 m2
dome_quantity: Three
minaret_quantity: Two
minaret_height: 67

embed: yes

The Taj-ul-Masajid (), also known as the Tāj-ul-Masjid (), is a Sunni mosque, affiliated with Tablighi Jamaat, part of the Deobandi movement, located in Bhopal, in the state of Madhya Pradesh, India. With capacity for worshippers, it is the largest mosque in India and, , was the ninth largest mosque in the world.

History

The construction of the Taj-ul-Masajid was started by Nawab Shah Jahan Begum of Bhopal, in the newly built walled suburb of Shahjahanabad. The exact year when construction was started is unclear; Sharma estimated it to be 1871. The Bhopal-based journalist and the author of Masajid-e-Bhopal (), Aarif Aziz stated the date as 1887.

After Shah Jahan Begum died in 1901, the mosque continued to be built by her daughter, Sultan Jahan Begum, till the end of her lifetime. The structure was planned in the midst of three water bodies, namely: Munshi Hussain Talab; Noor Mahal Talab; and Motia Talab. Hamidullah Khan helped construct one gate of the mosque on the suggestions of Shah Jahan Begum.

The construction work was later on led by Islamic scholar Imran Khan Nadwi, whose brother Salman Khan Nadwi, supervised the constructions. The construction was complete by 1958 at an expenditure of 20 million Indian rupees. The entrance of the mosque was renovated with motifs from 13th century Syrian mosques donated by the Emir of Kuwait in memory of his late wife.

During the COVID-19 pandemic, the mosque was used as a vaccination center.

Architecture

The Taj-ul-Masajid largely takes inspiration from Mughal architecture. The mosque has a pink facade topped by two 18-storey high octagonal minarets with marble domes, an impressive main hallway with attractive pillars, and marble flooring resembling the likes of Jama Masjid in Delhi and the Badshahi Mosque of Lahore. It has a courtyard with a large ablution tank in the centre. It has a double-storeyed gateway with four recessed archways and nine cusped multifold openings in the main prayer hall. The massive pillars in the hall hold 27 ceilings through squinted arches of which 16 ceilings are decorated with ornate petalled designs.

The mosque also features a zenana, rare given that prayer from home was the norm for women at the time of the mosque's construction.

Annual congregation

Bhopal Tablighi Ijtema, an annual three-day congregation of the Tablighi Jamaat was hosted in the Taj-ul-Masajid between 1948 and 2001. It was shifted to Intkhedi. outside the city due to shortage of space.

Gallery

Taj Ul Masajid, Bhopal.JPG|The mosque gate
Entrance to Taj-ul Masajid.JPG|Entrance gate of the mosque
Tau-ul-Masajid Entrance gate.jpg|Exterior of the mosque
Taj-ul-Masajid Aerial Photo.jpg|An aerial photo of the mosque
Taj-ul Masajid outside.png|The mosque grounds
Madrasah in Taj-ul-Masjid, Bhopal, India.jpg|Madrasa in the mosque
Madarsa in Taj-ul-Masajid.jpg|Madrasa in the mosque
Carvings on wall.jpg|Carvings on wall
Clock showing Namaz Timing.jpg|Clock showing Namaz timing
Taj-ul-Masajid inside.jpg|Interior of the mosque
Taj-ul-Masajid , Bhopal.jpg|Interior of the mosque

See also

* Islam in India
* List of mosques in India
* List of largest mosques

References

External links

* 

Category:1870s establishments in India
Category:20th-century mosques in India
Category:Buildings and structures in Bhopal
Category:Bhopal State
Category:Tablighi Jamaat Markaz
Category:Indo-Islamic mosques
Category:Mosque buildings with domes in India
Category:Mosque buildings with minarets in India
Category:Mosques completed in 1958
Category:Mosques in Madhya Pradesh
Category:Mughal mosques
Category:Sunni mosques in India
Category:Tourist attractions in Bhopal