---
title: Man Booker International prize 2015 won by 'visionary' László Krasznahorkai
author: Alison Flood
date: 2015-05-19
---
The Hungarian author László Krasznahorkai, whose sentences roll out over paragraphs in what his translator George Szirtes has called a "slow lava flow of narrative, a vast black river of type", has won the Man Booker International prize for his "achievement in fiction on the world stage".

Chair of judges Marina Warner, the academic and writer, compared Krasznahorkai's work to Kafka – the author's own personal literary hero – and Beckett. "I feel we've encountered here someone of that order," she said. "That's a trick that the best writers pull off; they give you the thrill of the strange … then after a while they imaginatively retune you. So now we say, 'it's just like being in a Kafka story'; I believe that soon we will say it's like being in a Krasznahorkai story."

The biennial Man Booker International is worth £60,000, and is intended to honour a living author for their body of work, either written in English or available in English translation. It has gone in the past to Ismail Kadare from Albania, Chinua Achebe from Nigeria, two Americans, Philip Roth and Lydia Davis, and one Canadian, Alice Munro.

Krasznahorkai was one of 10 writers shortlisted for this year's award, alongside authors including India's Amitav Ghosh, Libya's Ibrahim al-Koni, Mozambique's Mia Couto and America's Fanny Howe.

"We really would have preferred not to have to choose a winner – every one of the 10 writers is really remarkable in different ways, and there really isn't any of them who doesn't reward reading, who couldn't have won the prize," said Warner.

But Krasznahorkai, she said, was "a visionary writer of extraordinary intensity and vocal range who captures the texture of present-day existence in scenes that are terrifying, strange, appallingly comic, and often shatteringly beautiful". He has also, she added, "been superbly served by his translators", George Szirtes and Ottilie Mulzet, who will share the £15,000 translators' prize.

The author's first novel, Satantango, was published to huge acclaim in Hungary in 1985, and later adapted for the cinema by the filmmaker Bela Tarr, in collaboration with Krasznahorkai. The bleakly comic story of a dismal Hungarian town whose drunken inhabitants are taken in by a visitor who may be the devil, it was not released in English until Szirtes' 2012 translation.

Krasznahorkai followed it with 1989's The Melancholy of Resistance – published in English in 1998 - in which violent hysteria follows the arrival of a circus with a dead whale in a small Hungarian town. It won the German Bestenliste prize for the best literary work of the year; the Man Booker International judges said in a statement that "the book as a whole could be described as a vision, satirical and prophetic, of the dark historical province that goes by the name of western civilisation".

The author has gone on to win a host of ot