---
title: Princess Beatrice Welcomes Baby No. 2 Several Weeks Early with Name Honoring Queen Elizabeth: 'Healthy and Doing Well'
author: Rachel Burchfield
date: 2025-01-29
---
Princess Beatrice is a mom again!

On Jan. 29, Buckingham Palace Buckingham Palace announced the arrival of Princess Beatrice, 36, and husband Edoardo Mapelli Mozzi's second child, sharing a heartwarming first photo of the newborn. The couple chose the name Athena Elizabeth Rose — a touching tribute to Beatrice's late grandmother, Queen Elizabeth.

While the baby arrived several weeks early, with the palace originally announcing a due date in early spring, it's understood that the premature arrival was not unexpected. The proud parents, however, share that their little one is "healthy" and "doing well."

"Her Royal Highness Princess Beatrice and Mr Edoardo Mapelli Mozzi are delighted to announce the safe arrival of their daughter, Athena Elizabeth Rose Mapelli Mozzi, born on Wednesday, 22nd January, at 12:57pm. The baby was born weighing 4 pounds and 5 ounces," the palace statement said on X.

"The King and Queen, and other members of The Royal Family have all been informed and are delighted with the news," it continued, referring to King Charles, Queen Camilla and the extended royal family.

"Princess Beatrice and Mr Mapelli Mozzi would like to thank all the staff at the hospital for their wonderful care," it said. "Her Royal Highness and her daughter are healthy and doing well, and the family are enjoying spending time together with Athena's older siblings, Wolfie and Sienna."

The statement came with photo of the new baby, snuggled up in a white outfit in a pink blanket, with photo credit given to Beatrice's husband, Edoardo, 41, who is known as Edo.

The proud father also shared the photo on his personal Instagram, expressing how he and Beatrice are "completely besotted" with baby Athena.

"We welcomed Baby Athena into our lives last week. She is tiny and absolutely perfect. We are all (including Wolfie and Sienna) already completely besotted with her," he wrote. "Our hearts are overflowing with love for you, baby Athena."

"A massive thank you from my wife and I goes out to all the wonderful staff at the Chelsea and Westminster Hospital for their exceptional care and support during this incredibly special time," he continued.

Princess Beatrice's mother Sarah Ferguson shared a tribute of her own on Instagram, writing that she was "Overflowing with love and joy to be able to welcome Athena Elizabeth Rose into the world. She is already so adored and I'm incredibly blessed to be a Granny once again. So proud of Edo, Beatrice and the rest of my little 5-a-side team!" She added a heart emoji to the end of her post, which also featured the photo of Athena shared by other family members.

Beatrice's younger sister, Princess Eugenie, also shared her joy in an Instagram Story, posting the sweet photo of baby Athena alongside a heartfelt message: "Welcome Baby Girl!"

Princess Beatrice and Edo are already parents to 3-year-old daughter Sienna Elizabeth, whose name also honors Queen Elizabeth, while Edo's 8-year-old son, Christopher Woolf — affectionately called Wolfie — is from a previous relationship.

Buckingham Palace announced the news of Princess Beatrice's second pregnancy on Oct. 1. In a statement, the palace said, "Her Royal Highness Princess Beatrice and Mr Edoardo Mapelli Mozzi are very pleased to announce that they are expecting their second child together in early spring; a sibling for Wolfie, aged eight, and Sienna, aged three."

"His Majesty The King has been informed and both families are delighted with the news," the statement continued, referring to Beatrice's uncle, King Charles.

In December 2024, doctors advised Princess Beatrice to avoid long-distance travel due to her pregnancy. As a result, she made a last-minute change to her plans, opting to forgo spending the holidays with her in-laws in Italy and instead joined the royal family for