---
title: Ablade Glover
author: CM Gallery
date: 2008-01-01
---
Ablade Glover

Described by Bonhams London as one of the fathers of modern African art, Professor Ablade Glover (b. 1934, Accra, Ghana) stands as one of the continent's most influential and pioneering artists. Over a career spanning more than six decades, he has played a vital role in shaping the trajectory of contemporary African art, both as a painter and as an educator. His work is held in major collections worldwide, and at 91 years old, his legacy continues to inspire generations of artists across Africa.

Glover was a student at the College of Art in Kumasi in 1957 when Ghana became the first sub-Saharan African country to gain independence from colonial rule. Under the leadership of Dr. Kwame Nkrumah, the new government championed a vision that embraced both traditional Ghanaian identity and modern education. Nkrumah encouraged young artisans to study abroad and return to Ghana, where they would pass on their skills through apprenticeship and mentorship, helping to build a modern African nation grounded in its own cultural values.

Awarded a scholarship to study textile design at London's Central School of Art and Design, Glover returned to Ghana to discover that the textile factory he was meant to join had not yet been built. After completing a short teaching contract, he was granted a second scholarship—this time personally endorsed by President Nkrumah—to study Art Education at Newcastle University. Glover later earned a master's degree at Kent State University and a doctorate at Ohio University in 1974.

He returned to Ghana to dedicate the next two decades to teaching at the Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology in Kumasi, where he rose to become both Head of Department and Dean of the College of Art. Following his retirement from academia in 1994, Glover focused fully on painting while also pursuing a long-held dream to support and promote emerging African artists. In 1993, he founded the Artist Alliance Gallery in Accra, and in 2007, using private funds, he built a landmark three-storey arts complex on Accra's oceanfront to house the gallery and a training centre.

Glover remains deeply committed to his country and continent. As both an artist and mentor, he has dedicated his life to creative expression, education, and cultural empowerment—leaving an indelible mark on African art history.

Country • Ghana

Medium • oil on canvas

FIRST EXHIBITION WITH CHRISTOPHER MOLLER GALLERY • 2016

Explore his Work

Previous exhibitions by Ablade Glover

SELECTED SOLO EXHIBITIONS

2024 Inner Worlds, Outer Journeys, October Gallery, London, U.K

2022 88, Still At It, Christopher Moller Gallery South Africa. The Passage of Time, Hourglass Gallery, Lagos, Nigeria

2019 Wogbe Jeke - We Have Come a Long Way, October Gallery, London, UK Professor Ablade Glover: The Last 20 Years and Beyond, Gallery 1957, Accra, Ghana

2017 - JPK Gallery, Paris, France

2016 INDIVISIBLE: Abla