---
title: Ablade Glover - Wikipedia
author: Authority control databases
date: 2015-09-20
---
birth_name: Emmanuel Ablade Glover
birth_date: 1934
birth_place: Accra, Greater Accra Region, Gold Coast
field: Visual art, painting
nationality: Ghanaian
awards: Flagstar Award
alma_mater: Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology, Central School of Art and Design (BA), Kent State University (MA), Ohio State University (PhD)
honorific_suffix: GHA FGA 100%, GBR FRSA 100%, , CV

Ablade Glover CV (born 1934) is a Ghanaian painter and educator. He has exhibited widely, building an international reputation over several decades, as well as being regarded as a seminal figure on the West African art scene.Juliet Highet, "Ablade Glover – Ghanaian mirage" , New African Magazine, 6 August 2014. His work is held in many prestigious private and public collections, which include the Imperial Palace of Japan, the UNESCO headquarters in Paris, France,"Ablade Glover: 80th Anniversary", October Gallery, 2014. and O'Hare International Airport, Chicago, United States.

Glover has received several national and international awards, including the Order of the Volta in Ghana, and he is a Life Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts in London."Why I paint women, markets; Ablade Glover Digs Deep", GhanaWeb, 16 July 2012. He was Associate Professor, Head of the Department of Art Education and Dean of the College of Art at the Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology until 1994."Ablade Glover", October Gallery.

Early life and education

Born in the La community of Accra, in what was then the Gold Coast (present-day Ghana), Emmanuel Ablade Glover had his early education at Presbyterian mission schools.Gates, Henry Louis, Emmanuel Akyeampong and Steven J. Niven (eds), "Glover, Emmanuel Ablade (1934–)", Dictionary of African Biography, Oxford University Press, 2012. He had his teacher training education at the Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology, Kumasi (1957–58), before winning a scholarship to study textile design at London's Central School of Art and Design (1959–62).

Glover returned to Ghana to teach for a while, before another scholarship, given by Kwame Nkrumah, enabled Glover to study art education at the University of Newcastle upon Tyne (1964–65); it was there that Glover began to use the tool that shaped his technique when his teacher suggested a palette knife to apply paint, rather than brushes. Glover went on to further his education in the US, first at Kent State University, where he earned his master's degree, and then at Ohio State University,David Owusu-Ansah, "Glover, Ablade (1934–)", Historical Dictionary of Ghana, Rowman & Littlefield, 2014, p. 158. where he was awarded a PhD in 1974.

Career

Academic

Returning to Ghana after receiving his doctorate, Glover taught for the next two decades at the College of Art in the University of Kumasi, becoming Department Head and College Dean. He rose to the rank of associate professor within 