---
title: Alumni Hall of Fame - Big Brothers Big Sisters of America
date: 2025-01-01
---
Skip to content

Introducing the Big Brothers Big Sisters Alumni Hall of Fame, honoring former Bigs and Littles that have championed the power of mentorship. Featuring changemakers and leading executives, the Alumni Hall of Fame honors those whose mentorship impact has left a legacy across the organization and has seen firsthand the life-long impact that these relationships can have on one's life.

– 2024 Inductees –

– 2023 Inductees –

– 2022 Inductees –

Jennifer Frommer

Creative, Visionary, Connecter

Jennifer Frommer is an award-winning Culture creating expert, immersed in creativity and technology. Most recently, Jennifer served as SVP of Brand Partnerships and Licensing at Columbia Records and is UNICEF's Music Chair.

Jennifer has engineered award-winning campaigns combining entertainment, fashion, art and technology with some of the world's biggest influencers, artists and brands. Jennifer is an expert in creating visual storytelling programs, advertising campaigns and branded content stunts with brands including Jaguar, Pepsi, Samsung, Apple, Microsoft, Google, and many others.

She's created immersive experiences with global superstars including: Beyonce, Tyler, the Creator, Madonna, Lil Nas X, Lady Gaga, Eminem, Adele, Miley Cyrus, Pharrell and many others. She is well recognized in her field for her unmatched expertise in helping brands target Gen Z tapping into digital and social tactics matched with data analytical insights.

Jennifer is a frequent speaker at top creative industry functions including Cannes Lions, One Show, Advertising Week. Her work has been recognized by leading industry and consumer publications from Billboard to Ad Week to the NY Times. Jennifer has served on several prestigious juries including the Clio's and One Show Emerging Directors Showcase. Jennifer sits on the Board of the New York City Park Foundation and Central Park Summer Stage.

Ariel Atkins

WNBA Champion, Olympic Gold Medalist & Community Leader

Ariel Atkins is a two-time WNBA All-Star and Olympic gold medalist, now entering her eighth WNBA season as a key veteran presence. In 2025, she signed with the Chicago Sky, bringing her signature defensive grit and scoring power to a team on the rise.

Originally drafted 7th overall in the 2018 WNBA Draft by the Washington Mystics, Ariel made an immediate impact—helping lead the team to a WNBA Championship in 2019. She is the only player in league history to be named to an All-Defensive team in each of her first five seasons, earning First Team honors in 2022 and four consecutive Second Team nods before that.

A proud Texas native and standout from the University of Texas, Ariel has also made her mark on the international stage as a 2020 Olympic Gold Medalist and a 2022 FIBA World Cup Champion with Team USA.

Off the court, Ariel is deeply committed to giving back. She founded the Ariel Atkins Foundation, which is dedicated to the creation of possibility, opportunity and betterment for the youth and youth-adjacent communities. A passionate advocate for empowering youth, she uses her platform to encourage students to chase their ambitions and create positive change in their communities.

Whether she's leading on the hardwood or showing up for her community, Ariel Atkins is a force of purpose, resilience, and heart.

Demario Davis

Linebacker, New Orleans Saints

Demario Davis is a linebacker for the New Orleans Saints. He played college football for Arkansas State University and was drafted by the New York Jets in the third round of the 2012 NFL Draft. As one of the most consistent linebackers in the NFL, Demario is a steady force on defense and registers 90 plus tackles every season after his rookie year. In 2017, he set a career-high of 135 tackles and five sacks with the Jets and became a member and captain of the New Orleans Saints in 2018. Demario continues to make his mark on the field. He was named to the All-Pro Team in 2019, honored with 2023 and 2024 Pro Bowl selections, and was named 2024 Pro Bowl Defensive MVP. He was named the Saint's nominee for the 2020 and 2022 Walter Payton Man of the Year Award for his dedication to his work off the field. In 2021, he was awarded the Bart Starr Award for exemplifying outstanding character on the field, at home, and in the community, as his fellow NFL players voted on.

In 2013, Demario started the Devoted Dreamers Foundation to equip the next generation of leaders with the tools to be successful spiritually, mentally, and physically. Devoted Dreamers has been operating since 2012 and has provided numerous initiatives to provide the necessary resources for young men and women to succeed. Programs of Devoted Dreamers include Pearls for Girls, Encounter Conference, and the Devoted Dreamers 7×7 football team. Another pillar of Demario's core values is being a voice for social justice. He is a member of the Players Coalition, which exists to end social injustices and racial inequality so future generations can thrive without barriers. Demario also serves as a United Way brand ambassador and frequently lends his voice to causes he feels passionately about. In 2020, Demario launched the #SayHerName campaign to raise awareness of the issues that Black women in America face.

Demario is a devout Christian and the father of six, along with his wife, Tamela. In 2020, his family faced an unimaginable hardship with the diagnosis of retinoblastoma, a rare form of eye cancer, in their youngest daughter, Carly-Faith. Officially cancer-free, Demario believes that through his family's unwavering faith, his daughter's trial provided the opportunity to encounter and encourage others throughout their journey. Demario has worn and sold 56 Man of God masks and headbands through his faith. Demario donates a portion of the proceeds of the masks to honor and support the families of Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery, and George Floyd. His first book, The Unsuccessful Champion, was released in November 2019. When he's not serving others through volunteering, Demario can be found speaking and sharing his faith around the country through media appearances.

Jeffery Simmons

Defensive Tackle, Tennessee Titans

Jeffery Simmons is a defensive tackle for the Tennessee Titans. Born in Macon, Mississippi, Simmons played college football at Mississippi State University, where he was named First-team All-SEC in 2018 before being selected 19th overall by the Titans in the 2019 NFL Draft. Simmons quickly made his mark in the league through a combination of strength, quickness, and technique, earning multiple Pro Bowl selections throughout his career. Off the field, Jeffery is active in the community through his non-profit organization, Give Em A Reason, which aims to build self-esteem in youth through sporting activities. He has been recognized as the Tennessee Titans' Walter Payton Man of the Year nominee for his philanthropic work two years in a row. When he is not training, he spends most of his time on the water as an avid fisherman.

Glenda McNeal

Chief Partner Officer, American Express

Glenda McNeal is the first Chief Partner Officer at American Express, with more than 35 years of experience managing global partnerships across sectors, such as travel, technology, retail, media, sports, and entertainment. She leverages these relationships to drive innovation and value for American Express customers. Throughout her career at the company, she has built high-performing teams and led initiatives that enhance customer engagement and drive growth. Ms. McNeal also serves on the boards of Nordstrom, Inc. and the Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, and is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and the USC Marshall School of Business Board of Councilors. She holds an MBA from The Wharton School and a B.A. from Dillard University.

Janet (She/Her)

Agency: Big Brothers Big Sisters New York City

2024 Cheslie C. Kryst Fellow

College Student

Aspirations: To someday have her own bilingual accounting firm in support the Latino community.

Janet is a senior at her local university, pursuing a major in accounting and a minor in marketing, with plans to graduate in May 2025. As a first-generation college student, Janet often felt uncertain about navigating the corporate world, having no one in her immediate circle to provide guidance. However, her mentor became a vital source of support, offering a safe space where Janet felt comfortable asking questions she might not have voiced elsewhere.

Through their relationship, Janet learned to be more open and to embrace help when needed. This experience not only strengthened her confidence but also deepened her passion for serving others. Janet is committed to paving the way for those in need, drawing inspiration from the support and guidance she received along her own journey.

Laila (She/Her)

Agency: Big Brothers Big Sisters of Metro Atlanta

High School Student

Aspirations: To help ensure that youth are perceived positively, advocating for her generation's voice and impact.

Laila is a dedicated junior in high school, currently enrolled in the Fine Arts Magnet Education (FAME) Program with a focus on Drama. With a strong 3.85 GPA, she excels academically while also being a passionate advocate for community service, having been involved with Big Brothers Big Sisters for eight years. Her close bond with her mentor has played a significant role in her personal growth, providing the support needed to navigate life's challenges.

Beyond her advocacy, Laila is also an accomplished actress, having appeared in several movies and television shows, showcasing her dedication to the arts. As a member of the National Youth Council, she is committed to ensuring that youth voices are heard and positively represented in society. Through her initiatives, Laila hopes to make a meaningful impact on her community and inspire her peers to realize their full potential.

Sarah (She/Her/Hers)

Agency: Big Brothers Big Sisters of Middle Tennessee

College Student

Aspirations: To expand her network within the Big Brothers Big Sisters community and engage on a larger scale to benefit the organization. To develop her public speaking and leadership skills further, contributing ideas that enhance the agency's outreach and impact

Sarah is a college graduate with a Bachelor of Science in Business Administration, specializing in Marketing. With a strong passion for community involvement and youth development, she has been actively engaged with Big Brothers Big Sisters, first as a Little for two years and then as an Alumni Little for five. Currently, Sarah serves as a Youth Board Member at her local agency, where she works closely with staff to strengthen community engagement and act as an ambassador for the organization.

Through her journey, Sarah has developed excellent public speaking skills and built valuable professional connections. As a member of the National Youth Council, she is eager to expand her influence within the Big Brothers Big Sisters community while gaining deeper insights into the organization's operations. Sarah's ultimate goal is to bring innovative ideas to the table that can enhance the agency's impact on a broader scale.

Ivette (She/Her/Ella)

Agency: Big Brothers Big Sisters of Columbia Northwest

College Student

Aspirations: To create a safe and inclusive environment for all youth while advocating for students and communities at local, national, and global levels. To continue developing her leadership and advocacy skills to better serve underrepresented communities through her involvement with BBBS.

Ivette is a first-year college student with a deep passion for advocacy and community empowerment. Over seven years with Big Brothers Big Sisters, she has honed her leadership and public speaking skills, becoming a confident voice for change. As a first-generation college student, Ivette is deeply committed to amplifying youth voices and addressing policies that affect underrepresented communities.

Driven by her desire to inspire and support others, Ivette seeks to help students and communities overcome challenges and thrive. She envisions a future where her growing leadership skills contribute to meaningful advocacy and transformative community engagement, leaving a lasting positive impact on society.

Mary Ann (She/Her)

Agency: Big Brothers Big Sisters of Northeast Alabama

College Student

Aspirations: To make a larger impact in the field of public health and education, advocating for underprivileged children and improving their circumstances.

Mary Ann is a passionate college sophomore pursuing a bachelor's degree in political science, maintaining an impressive 3.7 GPA. Her interests span public health, international relations, education, and human development, reflecting her commitment to creating meaningful change. For the past three years, Mary Ann has been deeply involved with Big Brothers Big Sisters, serving as a High School Big Sister and gaining firsthand insight into the transformative power of mentorship in children's lives.

Her dedication to supporting underprivileged children fuels her vision of building a brighter future for the next generation. Mary Ann aspires to use her experiences to help expand the reach of Big Brothers Big Sisters, breaking down barriers to success for children in need. As a member of the National Youth Council, she is eager to apply her skills and passion to foster an environment where youth can excel both socially and educationally.

Josue (He/Him)

Agency: Big Brothers Big Sisters of Greater Los Angeles

College Student

Aspirations: To support and assist students involved in youth mentorship programs, ensuring they reach their full potential, as well as providing ways to help others go to college.

Josue is a devoted college senior with a deep passion for leadership and community impact. Over the past five years, he has been actively involved with Big Brothers Big Sisters, where he sharpened his collaborative skills and gained an appreciation for the power of effective team communication.

Josue is driven by a desire to support students in youth mentorship programs, striving to inspire and empower them to realize their full potential. His ultimate goal is to become a dynamic leader within his community, championing youth engagement and advocacy. Through his experiences, Josue has cultivated a strong understanding of the challenges and opportunities young leaders face today, positioning himself as a committed advocate for positive change.

Quameer (He/Him)

Agency: Big Brothers Big Sisters Essex, Hudson, and Union Counties

College Student

Aspirations: To create programs specifically for young males who grew up without a father figure, helping them realize their full potential, giving them a second chance at a successful life.

Quameer is an accomplished freshman at his local university, excelling academically with a remarkable 4.15 GPA. A natural leader, he has made a significant impact as President of the Student Executive Board, where he organized meaningful events and represented the voices of his peers. His dedication to advocacy shines through as the founder of the Black Student Union, creating a welcoming and supportive space for Black students on campus.

Quameer's passion for mentorship is rooted in his eight years with Big Brothers Big Sisters, where he developed a deep commitment to empowering troubled youth, particularly young males without father figures. He envisions creating programs that inspire hope and unlock potential, while championing diversion initiatives to give juveniles a second chance. Beyond his leadership and advocacy, Quameer's involvement in theater and mock trial highlights his well-rounded nature and dedication to personal growth.

Shane (He/Him)

Agency: Big Brothers Big Sisters Kansas City

Little of the Year 2024

High School Student

Shane, one of the 2024 Littles of the Year, has been matched with his Big, Chris, for six impactful years. At just nine years old, Shane faced the heartbreaking loss of his father to brain cancer. As his mother noticed changes in his behavior, she turned to Big Brothers Big Sisters, where Shane found a steadfast mentor in Chris. Chris quickly became a stable and supportive presence in Shane's life, whom Shane affectionately describes as a "grown-up friend." He emphasizes how crucial it is for young people, especially those who have lost a parent, to have dependable adults they can rely on.

The connection between Chris and Shane exemplifies the meaningful relationships that can be fostered through thoughtful matches made by Big Brothers Big Sisters. Together, they've shared unforgettable moments, including announcing a draft pick at the NFL Draft. Shane also serves as his agency's "Voice of Potential," using his platform to inspire others. Looking ahead, Shane plans to pay it forward by becoming a Big himself once he is old enough.

Melvina (She/Her)

Agency: Big Brothers Big Sisters Services, Inc.

Little of the Year 2024

College Student

Melvina, one of the 2024 Littles of the Year, has been matched with her Mentor, Donna, for three transformative years. As the youngest of six siblings, Melvina often struggled to find her place. However, since being matched with Donna, she has blossomed, rediscovered her faith with Donna's encouragement, and embraced the value of having a trusted adult to lean on.

Their bond is marked by mutual gratitude, with Donna frequently sharing how much she has learned from Melvina and how profoundly her Little has impacted her life. Donna is unwavering in her support for Melvina, always wanting the best for her. Meanwhile, Melvina credits much of her growth and success to Donna and the support she's received from her local Big Brothers Big Sisters agency. During her Little of the Year interview, Melvina expressed her heartfelt belief that every young person deserves a Big, admitting she isn't sure where she would be today without Donna by her side.

Nate (He/Him/His)

Agency: Big Brothers Big Sisters of Southern Minnesota

College Student

Aspirations: To advocate for mentorship and provide support to youth in need.

Nate is a passionate junior university student with a deep love for sports and a strong commitment to community engagement. With over 12 years of involvement in Big Brothers Big Sisters, he has gained invaluable insights into the transformative power of mentorship. Nate is driven by a profound purpose: to inspire young boys and girls to realize their fullest potential, ensuring that every child has access to a mentor, friend, and support system.

As a Youth Council Member, Nate is dedicated to elevating youth voices and championing social change through the power of mentorship. His unwavering commitment to service and civic action fuels his efforts to develop impactful initiatives that promote youth connectedness and overall well-being. Eager to share his journey and insights, Nate strives to be a source of inspiration and hope for others as they pursue their own paths to success.

Jazirah (She/Her/Hers)

Agency: Big Brothers Big Sisters of Zanesville

Location: Zanesville, OH

High School Student

Aspirations: Committed to helping others and exemplifying leadership skills among peers and younger children.

Jazirah is a remarkable high school student from Ohio, set to graduate in May 2025 with an impressive 3.68 GPA. A consistent Honor Roll achiever, she shines both academically and athletically, earning Varsity Awards in tennis and bowling. Her involvement in JROTC highlights her leadership, discipline, and commitment to excellence, while her nine years with Big Brothers Big Sisters underscore her passion for mentorship, both as a Little and a Lunch Buddy Big.

As a mentor at an elementary school, Jazirah inspires and guides younger students, serving as a role model through her dedication and positivity. Her work experience has further honed her customer service and teamwork skills, demonstrating her ability to excel in dynamic environments. With her exceptional work ethic, leadership qualities, and heartfelt commitment to her community, Jazirah stands out as a source of encouragement and inspiration to those around her.

Eric (He/Him/His)

Agency: Big Brothers Big Sisters South Texas

College Student

Aspirations: Leadership development in education, create inclusive programs that not only support academic success but also foster personal development and resilience among students, particularly in underserved areas.

Eric is a committed professional with a solid foundation in business management and a passion for serving at-risk youth and underserved communities. Currently pursuing an MBA, he also holds a bachelor's degree in business administration with a concentration in management. His professional experience includes roles such as Construction Inspector and Appraisal Analyst at a local bank, where he specializes in evaluating properties for mortgage lending.

A proud advocate for his community, Eric previously served as a Board Member and Spokesperson for Big Brothers Big Sisters of South Texas, his home agency, where he excelled in outreach and recruitment initiatives. He has also demonstrated his marketing expertise as the Interim Social Media Manager at his University, successfully driving engagement and advancing fundraising efforts. With strong interpersonal skills and a talent for creating meaningful content, Eric stands out as a leader devoted to fostering positive change in his community.

Frankie (He/Him/His)

Agency: Big Brothers Big Sisters Lone Star – Houston

College Student

Aspirations: Passionate about mentoring and advocacy, with a dedication to supporting at-risk youth through involvement with BBBS community outreach programs.

Frankie is a dedicated Cyber Security student on track to earn an Associate of Applied Science degree. With a solid academic foundation in network technology, programming logic, and information security, he is preparing for a promising career in technology.

Beyond academics, Frankie serves as an Administrative Assistant and Food Pantry Coordinator at his college, where he efficiently oversees daily operations, fosters community partnerships for donations, and supports initiatives to enhance student engagement.

Frankie's leadership extends to his role as a guest speaker at the OJJDP Conference in Washington, D.C., where he proudly represented the Big Brothers Big Sisters Lone Star program. Known for his strong communication, problem-solving, and leadership abilities, Frankie is a proactive and adaptable professional making a meaningful impact in both his college and community.

Kiari (He/Him/His)

Agency: Big Brothers Big Sisters of Eastern Missouri

College Student

Aspirations: Committed to communication and mental health advocacy, with a focus on youth empowerment and making a positive community impact.

Kiari is a dynamic and passionate multimedia journalism student pursuing a Bachelor's Degree in Communication. Renowned for his vibrant personality and unyielding determination, he is a strong advocate for mental health, using his platform to inspire and uplift others.

Kiari's professional experience reflects his ability to connect with people, excelling in customer relations by turning interactions into memorable experiences. As a skilled podcaster, he has honed his ability to analyze diverse news sources and craft compelling narratives that resonate with audiences.

His dedication to youth development is evident in his role as a Counselor at the Boys & Girls Club, where he creates a safe and supportive environment for children. Through engaging activities and social skill-building, Kiari not only enriches their experiences but also champions positive change within the community.

Jahneulie (She/Her/Hers)

Agency: Big Brothers Big Sisters of East Tennessee

College Student

Aspirations: To excel in tech and contribute to youth empowerment

Jahneulie is a driven Computer Science student excelling both academically and professionally. With a remarkable 3.76 GPA, she is a proud Haslam Leadership Scholar and Peyton Manning Scholar. Her tech industry experience is extensive, including internships that span front-end and back-end development. In her current role, she continues to sharpen her technical expertise, while her past internship at CGI saw her develop an inventory management app and contribute to fundraising efforts and Metaverse Consulting initiatives.

Beyond her internships, Jahneulie serves as an Undergraduate Research Assistant, delving into the impact of ChatGPT on higher education. She is also passionate about inspiring others, having participated in STEM outreach programs. Her active involvement in extracurricular activities highlights her leadership, dedication to community service, and unwavering commitment to making a positive impact.

Sadé Muhammad

Chief Marketing & Impact Officer, TIME

Sadé Muhammad is the Chief Marketing Officer of TIME, where she oversees all integrated marketing and branded content.

She has over a decade of experience in marketing, digital transformation, ad products, and organizational change via DEI. She founded the Representation & Inclusion Practice at Forbes, a revenue-generating ad business centered on equity as a path to marketing innovation and cultural change.

A strong cross-functional leader and creative, her work has been celebrated in Digiday, Adweek, and PRSANY, and she has forged strategic partnerships with JP Morgan Wealth Management, UBS, LVMH, and more. She was awarded the 30 Under 30 Award by the INMA for Achievement in Advertising in 2020. Prior to Forbes, Sade held various roles at NBCUniversal and underwent the prestigious NBC Page Program.

A true magazine fanatic, Muhammad holds a degree in Magazine Journalism from the S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications at Syracuse University. She sits on the Newhouse 44 Advisory Committee, a group dedicated to equity and inclusion for journalism students at Syracuse University.

Michelle Bell

SVP, Head of Brand Partnerships, MACRO

Michelle Bell, SVP Head of Brand Partnerships @ MACRO is a creative force in the entertainment industry with a strong focus on licensing and brand partnerships. With a proven track record, she has secured hundreds of high-profile deals across music, film, TV, and gaming. Her expertise has been integral to collaborations with major brands such as EA Sports, NBA, NFL, Vodafone, Champion, NBC, HBO, Disney, Netflix, Paramount and Nickelodeon among others.

As a music publisher and A&R professional, Michelle has signed Grammy-nominated, multi-platinum songwriters, contributing to numerous hit songs, including "What's Poppin" and "Loving on Me" by Jack Harlow and "Bodyguard" by Beyonce. Her personal songwriting and production credits span over 40 million albums sold worldwide, with highlights including Jennifer Lopez, Mary J. Blige, Britney Spears, and Nas.

Michelle's unique ability to bridge the gap between creatives and commercial opportunities makes her a valuable asset in the entertainment business. Her extensive network and deep industry knowledge help artists and brands thrive in a rapidly evolving landscape. Beyond her professional achievements, she is passionate about travel, wine, yoga, Bitcoin, and discovering new music on KCRW radio.

Croix Bethune

Midfielder, Washington Spirit

A midfielder for the Washington Spirit (NWSL), Croix Bethune has made history in her rookie season. In just 17 matches of her first professional season, Bethune, the #3 overall selection in the 2024 NWSL Draft, recorded five goals and 10 assists. Her 10 assists are an all-time NWSL single season record, matching the long-standing total set by soccer legend Tobin Heath in 2016. This season, the Alpharetta, Georgia native won NWSL Rookie of the Month three consecutive times and earned four total honors – both of which are NWSL records. Bethune's efforts at the club level earned her a call up to the U.S. Women's National Team (USWNT) as an alternate for the 2024 Olympics where she won a gold medal. Bethune was just as impressive at the collegiate level, winning the following honors over five seasons at University of Southern California and the University of Georgia: three consecutive First Team All-Pac 12 (2020-2022), back-to-back Pac-12 Midfielder of the Year (2021-2022), MAC Hermann Semifinalist (2021), and SEC Tournament MVP (2023) honors.

Kardea Brown

Emmy Nominated Food Network Host and Author, Host of "Delicious Miss Brown," Former BBBS Staff

Kardea Brown is an Emmy Nominated contemporary Southern Chef born in Charleston, South Carolina, and host of the Food Network series, "Delicious Miss Brown," now in its eighth season. Of Gullah Geechee descent, Kardea was raised by her single mother and grandmother and spent much of her childhood on Wadmalaw Island among the Gullah community where she grew up with the foods, flavors, history and heritage of her culture.

The Gullah community formed when West Africans arrived in the Lowcountry as slaves and they developed a cuisine born of necessity, making use of local ingredients harvested from land and sea. It was through her grandmother that Kardea learned of and tasted the traditional foods of her ancestry, learning to prepare many of the dishes she cooks today. While dedicated to preserving her culinary roots and sharing the history of her culture, over time Kardea also began to infuse newer flavors that reflect her innate flair for cooking and exploration of diverse influences.

After graduating from Atlanta's Oglethorpe University, Kardea accepted a job at a child placement agency and cooking became her therapy to work through the emotional toll of social work. When that toll became too great, Kardea moved to Newark, NJ for a fresh start and accepted a position with Big Brothers Big Sisters. There she thrived with exposure to different cultures and people that left her energized for a new journey.

Bringing Gullah Cuisine From the Lowcountry to the TV Screen:

While working in Newark, a former boyfriend learned of a casting call and submitted a lively and engaging tape of Kardea cooking which ultimately came to the attention of a production company who created a pilot with her for a Cooking Channel show. The producers subsequently connected with Food Network executives who responded that they loved her energy and personality but felt that she could benefit from more experience. This feedback proved to be a revelation to Kardea, who realized that she had finally found her true passion and decided to move back home to South Carolina and the food, family and traditions that are such an important part of her identity. Although she hadn't yet mapped out her next career steps, inspiration struck on the return trip home, and she decided to create the New Gullah Supper Club pop-up in 2015. Born of a GoFundMe campaign, this traveling dinner series showcased Kardea's heritage, with a menu that paid homage to the dishes passed down through her family for generations executed with her own signature flair.

Over time, Kardea stayed in touch with Food Network, appearing on several shows, and by fall 2018 she had filmed a proof of concept for her current show, Delicious Miss Brown. The show premiered on Food Network in July 2019 and is now in its tenth season. Filmed at Kardea's home in Charleston, SC, the show celebrates the rich history of her Gullah heritage and the diversity of its cuisine, showcasing her passion for cooking and culture, while sharing stories as she prepares food for dinner parties and events for family and friends. On Delicious Miss Brown, Kardea shows loyal viewers – whom she affectionately refers to as her 'cousins' – another side of Charleston, and that the Gullah people and their cuisine are still thriving on the Sea Islands. Her take on traditional Gullah cuisine is lighter and more vegetable-forward, and part of Kardea's mission is to show that Southern cuisine is much more than just fried food. In April 2023, she was nominated for a Daytime Emmy Award for Outstanding Culinary Host for her performance in Delicious Miss Brown.

Kardea also hosts The Great Soul Food Cook-Off, a series produced by discovery+ and OWN that premiered in November 2021 on the streaming service. The first-ever soul food cooking competition, The Great Soul Food Cook-Off spotlights the traditions of Black chefs and Black food, and the contributions soul food has had on American cuisine.

Kardea is also the newest Cohost of Kids Baking Championship on Food Network. She has also appeared in a range of other Food Network shows including Beat Bobby Flay, Chopped, Chopped Junior, Cooks vs. Cons, BBQ Blitz, Family Food Showdown, Cupcake Championship, Farmhouse Rules, Holiday Wars and Spring Baking Championship as a resident Judge.

From the Screen to the Page:

Kardea shares her multi-generational "passed down" recipes and innovative takes on Gullah classics with home cook in her cookbook The Way Home. "Gullah" and "GeeChee" refer to a distinct group of African Americans living in the coastal areas of South Carolina and Georgia who have preserved much of their West African language, culture, and cuisine. The Way Home is an unabashed love letter to her family's roots, packed with dishes that combine West African herbs, spices, and grains with traditional Southern cooking. "Gullah people laid the foundation for Southern cooking. Before farm-to-table was a fad, it was what Gullah people did," Kardea explains. "I want to show the world that soul food is not monolithic. It's so much more than fried chicken and vegetables cooked in pork. It's seasonal, fresh and delicious!"

Flavoring her recipes with cherished family anecdotes, memories, and helpful tips, The Way Home is a perfect blend of the modern and the traditional. Kardea honors her proud heritage and shows off her own signature class and sass. The result is a marvelous, big-hearted collection of recipes and stories that will nourish you, body and soul. The Way Home became an instant New York Times Bestselling Cookbook, making it to number 6 on the list.

Meredith O'Sullivan

Co-Founder/Co-CEO, The Lede Company

Meredith O'Sullivan is a Co-founder and Co-CEO of The Lede Company, a female-owned strategy, communications, integrated marketing and social impact consulting firm, specializing in corporate, entertainment, lifestyle, fashion, beauty, tech, consumer products, and nonprofit sectors founded in 2018. With dedicated Talent, Strategic Communications, Crisis, Brand, Content and Social Impact divisions, the firm works with a range of clients including Amy Schumer, Cara Delevigne, Charlize Theron, Emma Stone, Gael Garcia Bernal, Halle Berry, Halsey, Jennifer Garner, Jessica Biel, Lady Gaga, Mary J. Blige, Pharrell Williams, Penelope Cruz, Reese Witherspoon, Rihanna, Shakira, Will Ferrell, Will Smith, Anonymous Content, Candle Media, The Gotham Film & Media Institute, Hello Sunshine, Higher Ground, Illumination, Live Nation, Paramount, Westbrook, Nice Crowd (fka ABFF Ventures), content from Netflix, Hulu, Apple TV+, Freeform, as well as independent films and documentaries, ONE Campaign, The Global Fund, Thom Browne, Altuzarra, Kenzo, PANGAIA, Savage x Fenty, Tony's Chocolonely, Blue Bottle Coffee, Essence Ventures, Violet Grey and WhatsApp, among others.

Shelley Zalis

CEO, Female Quotient

Known as the "Chief Troublemaker," Shelley Zalis is a trailblazer for women in the workplace. She is an internationally renowned entrepreneur, a pioneer for online research, a sought-after speaker, a well-known thought leader, and a devoted mentor.

As founder and CEO of The Female Quotient, Zalis is in the business of equality™. Her mission is to change the equation and close the gender gap in the workplace. Together with Fortune 500 companies, impact organizations, and conscious leaders, The FQ curates experiences, media, and solutions that advance gender equality. The FQ has forever altered the business agenda through its signature Equality Lounges® advancing equality at the largest global business and industry conferences, including Davos, CES, SXSW, Cannes and more.

Prior to The FQ, Zalis became the mother of online research when she founded OTX (Online Testing Exchange), which quickly grew into one of the world's largest research companies and earned Zalis distinction as the first female chief executive ranked in the research industry's top 25. She sold OTX to Ipsos in 2010, where she led global innovation in over 80 countries.

With a bold approach to leadership, business, and life, Zalis is an acclaimed speaker and dynamic moderator who has interviewed top-level CEOs, notable celebrities, and prominent female figures. In addition to being an exclusive contributor to TIME, Zalis authors a Forbes column, and is one of LinkedIn's Top Voices.

A firm believer in giving back with generosity, Zalis is the co-founder of #SeeHer, a movement led by the Association of National Advertisers (ANA) to increase the accurate portrayal of women and girls in advertising and media. Zalis is also on the Board of Directors for several organizations in the equality space. Over the course of her transformational career, Zalis has received the Ernst & Young Entrepreneur of the Year Award, Global Marketing Leadership Award, Matrix Award, She Runs It Game Changer Award, and ARF Great Minds in Innovation Award.

Michelle Wong

Chief Marketing Officer

Michelle graduated with a Grand Diplôme from Le Cordon Bleu in London and landed a job as a pastry chef at London's Grosvenor House Hotel. The creativity and intensity of the culinary world provided a perfect training ground for the world of advertising – and an eye-opening experience for a woman finding her way in another male-dominated field.

Michelle's advertising career took her from Leo Burnett in Chicago to Dailey in West Hollywood where she was the agency's first female Managing Partner and President in its 50-year history.

Michelle has worked on iconic brands across categories, everything from Philip Morris and Qantas Airlines to Butterfinger and Panda Express. But the one constant has been her love of brands and their ability to connect with consumers' hearts and minds, particularly when those brands embrace the power of creativity and authenticity.

During her time as the Chief Marketing Officer of Sprinkles, Michelle led all creative strategy and communication, product innovation, brand partnerships and launched Sprinkles' first line of CPG premium chocolates nationally at over 6,000 Walmart and Target stores nationwide.

Michelle was named on the 2024 Forbes Entrepreneurial CMO 50 list, Brand Innovator's Top 100 list of Most Innovative Women in Marketing and has spoken at SXSW, Forbes, Apple and the Cannes Lions. Other recent acknowledgments include a ColorComm Circle award in recognition of her outstanding leadership and mentorship to other women in the industry.

Sybil Wilkes

Media Maven, Former Co-Host of the Tom Joyner Morning Show

Sybil Wilkes has been an important listener resource for over two decades. Known as "The Voice of Reason" on the Tom Joyner Morning Show, she delivered news, information and entertainment with honesty, accessibility, and integrity, earning the trust of her nationwide audience. After the Tom Joyner Morning show ended, Wilkes created YoSy Media. YoSy Media is a full-service multi-media news and information platform developed specifically to Inform and Empower the African American community.

Led by the highly respected and revered Sybil Wilkes, YoSy Media is poised to become the information destination for Black people.

Establishing a news division for Urban One, Wilkes served as both Executive Director and Talent, providing content across multiple platforms for the network. In a climate often crowded with bias, hidden agendas and "spin," Sybil provides a clear and concise break down of pertinent news developments, getting to the heart of the issues that matter most to listeners. What Sybil brings to news programming is an entertaining yet no nonsense approach to news reporting that cuts through the clutter of media muck and gets down to the important issues of the communities she serves and shares with her audience. She provides insight, intelligent dialogue, detailed analysis, cultural perspective, and historical context to issues. As an avid reader, she created "Sybil's Book Club," which features African American authors at live events and offers an opportunity for book lovers to meet and engage with their favorite writers. When you want to know the truth, when you want it broken down, when you want to know what's really going on, when you want to be informed and entertained…tune in to "Sybil Wilkes: What You Need To Know."

"Sybil is the voice of our community; we are so proud to get our information from her."

– Barack Obama at the 2016 White House Christmas Party.

This native Chicagoan began her radio career in 1985 as a production assistant with WKQX-FM, Chicago. She eventually went on to news management and reporting jobs at WINK-AM/FM, Fort Myers, Florida; WRCC-FM, Cape Coral, Florida; and WCKZ-FM, Charlotte, North Carolina. In 1989 Wilkes joined WGCI-AM/FM, Chicago, as a talk show host. In 1990 she became a reporter for Chicago's Shadow Traffic Network. While with Shadow, Wilkes delivered morning and afternoon drive traffic updates and worked as one of Tom Joyner's WGCI-FM sidekicks. A noted news and political journalist, Wilkes has landed major interviews with some of today's top newsmakers including joining Former President Barack Obama and Senator John Edwards on the campaign trail for exclusive one-on-one interviews as well as a candid interview with Former President Bill Clinton.

Being a celebrated radio personality and journalist, Sybil has received several accolades including The President's Award from the NAACP Image Awards, and an honorary Doctorate Degree from Bennett College in Greensboro, NC. Wilkes has also served as a national ambassador for the Susan G. Komen Circle of Promise Campaign.

A graduate of Northwestern University, she received a Bachelor of Science in Political Science and Communication Studies. Wilkes lives by the biblical saying handed down by her parents, "To whom much is given, much is required." When not using her "Big A Words" on the show, Sybil has an interest in politics, photography, and sports. Wilkes resides in Dallas, Texas.

Sybil is the distributor and editor of the daily newsletter, What You Need To Know. She can currently be heard delivering news updates daily on The DL Hughley Show as well as Radio One stations across the country. She is the news commentator for The Erica Campbell Show, Willie Moore Jr. and Darlene McCoy shows. She is on YouTube and Facebook Live Monday through Thursdays from 6:00pm until 7:00pm (CST). It's Sybil can be heard on SIRIUS XM HUR VOICES on Friday, Saturday, and Sundays. For more information go to 

Gabrielle Union

Actress, Producer, Author, Advocate

Gabrielle Union is an actress, producer, best-selling author, and TIME100 cover honoree. Union stars in and executive produced the Netflix romantic comedy THE PERFECT FIND, released in June 2023, which earned her a NAACP Image Award nomination for her performance. She also served as executive producer for Amazon MGM Studios' THE IDEA OF YOU, starring Anne Hathaway and Nicholas Galitzine. The film was released on May 2, 2024 to 50 million worldwide viewers, becoming Amazon MGM's highest romantic-comedy debut of all time. Union also executive produced her BET+ docuseries, "My Journey to 50" which chronicles her time in Africa celebrating her heritage and 50th birthday. Up next, Union stars alongside Bill Murray and Jennifer Coolidge in the crime comedy RIFF RAFF, which premiered at TIFF on September 9, 2024.

Lexi Underwood

Actress, Producer, Author, Changemaker

Lexi Underwood is an actress, filmmaker, author and changemaker. She is best known for her roles in Little Fires Everywhere, The First Lady, Sneakerellla and Cruel Summer. In 2018, she founded her production company, Ultimate Dreamer Productions, and made her directorial debut with the docu-short We the Voices of Gen-Z. Lexi is committed to using her voice to give back and raise awareness on issues that impact girls and all youth, both locally and globally. Lexi is originally from the greater Washington, DC, area and currently resides in Los Angeles. You can find her online @LexiUnderwood.

Sehr Thadhani

Chief Digital Officer, NASDAQ

Sehr Thadhani is a dynamic intrapreneur, strategic leader and inspirational team builder with a passion for driving change by finding opportunities in the whitespace to guide companies and leaders from big idea innovation to go to market activation. Sehr's trajectory has been non-linear by design – she sees magic in the vectors and intersections that are often overlooked. She has a proven track record of pioneering what's new and what's next at some of the world's top companies, using her skills to spur transformative growth. Everything Sehr does is mission-driven; her intuition and commitment to obsessive curiosity, radical transparency and solution finding lend to her ability to break down the root of institutional problems to not just innovate, but to also futureproof.

Today, she is Chief Digital Officer at Nasdaq, where she's focused on long term growth, revenue and competitive differentiation for the exchange. She has held senior executive and advisory roles at Google, NBC, Viacom, Silicon Foundry and Edelman Digital and served as a trusted thought partner and advisor to executives at GE, Estee Lauder, Samsung, the Department of Education and the White House during the Obama Administration.

Sehr's trajectory has been non-linear by design Sehr holds a BA in Marketing and Voice Performance from Indiana University, an MS in Global Affairs from NYU and an MBA from Columbia Business School. She's a trained opera singer and the co-founder of a nonprofit that helped more than 150 women with physical disabilities build financial freedom. A true "third culture kid," she currently resides in Miami after a childhood growing up in five countries and years of globe hopping.

Marissa Solis

Sr. Vice President – Global Brand and Consumer Marketing, National Football League

Marissa Solis is a magnetic business leader with over 25 years of expertise in business consulting, CPG, Retail, and Sports marketing. Currently, Marissa leads all global brand and consumer marketing initiatives for the NFL, including all national advertising, traditional and digital media initiatives, in-stadium marketing, and new fan development.

A graduate of Georgetown University with a B.S. in International Economics and the University of Texas at Austin with an M.A. in Public Policy, she began her career in brand management at Procter & Gamble Latin America, where she led marketing for brands like Ariel, Downy, and Pampers in Central America and the Caribbean.

Marissa spent a few years as a management consultant at Deloitte Consulting, leading change initiatives and communication consulting for Public Sector clients. She also spent time as a political consultant, contributing to the communication strategies of key campaigns in Texas and Mexico. In 2003, she took a role in marketing at Pepsico's Frito Lay North America Division. During her 18-year tenure at Pepsico, Marissa led numerous brand marketing initiatives and national campaigns for globally renowned food and beverage brands like Doritos and Pepsi. She also held roles in shopper marketing and sales for key PepsiCo retail customers like Walmart, Target, and Costco.

In 2017, Marissa led the creation of a cross-functional Hispanic Business Unit – the first of its kind – winning Industry Recognition for work to engage Latinos in key brand initiatives. She went on to lead marketing for brands at Frito Lay North America, including the coveted relationship with the NFL. She won several Reggies, Sports Clios, and a Grand Prix Cannes Lion for her work on Cheetos, Doritos, and Tostitos brands. In 2021, Marissa was recognized by Adweek as one of the Most Powerful Women in Sports for elevating the football-watching occasion with the NFL and Frito Lay partnership. In 2023, Marissa and her team won a Sports Emmy for the "She Runs It" Superbowl campaign featuring star flag football player Diana Flores.

In addition to her full-time marketing position, Marissa serves on the Board of Directors of Consolidated Communications, a leading broadband and business communications provider that serves wireless and wireline customers across rural and metro communities. She is a new member of the Board of Directors of AIMM – Alliance for Inclusive and Multicultural Marketing. She also serves as a board member on the North Texas Chapter of the Make-a-Wish Foundation and The Melville Family Foundation, an organization dedicated to improving the lives of minority children in Dallas. She has a third-degree black belt in Tae Kwon Do and resides in McKinney, Texas, with her husband Juan and 18-year-old daughter Gabriela.

Paula Price

Former Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Macy's Inc.

Paula A. Price is an independent board director and strategic advisor who combines her extensive business expertise with a strong commitment to mentoring emerging leaders. She currently serves on the boards of several publicly traded companies, including Accenture (NYSE: ACN), Bristol Myers Squibb (NYSE: BMS), Mondelez (NASDAQ: MDLZ), and Warner Bros. Discovery (NASDAQ: WBD). Price previously served on the board of Reddit (NYSE: RDDT) as its IPO Readiness and Audit Committee Chair.

From 2018 to 2020, Price was the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Macy's Inc. (NYSE: M). As CFO, she was a principal architect of Macy's transformation journey and, during the COVID-19 pandemic, led its financial restructuring including raising $4.5 billion to recapitalize and sustain the company. Since July 2018, Price has continued to contribute to academia as a Visiting Executive at Harvard Business School, following her role as a Senior Lecturer of Business Administration from 2014 to 2018. Price's passion for mentorship is evident in her work with students and young professionals, guiding them through their career development and fostering leadership skills.

Before her time at Macy's, Price served as EVP and Chief Financial Officer of Ahold USA, where she led Finance, Accounting, Strategy, Real Estate, and Information Technology. She also played a key role in the $26 billion CVS/Caremark merger as Senior Vice President, Controller, and Chief Accounting Officer at CVS Health (NYSE: CVS), and she held senior finance roles at JPMorgan Chase. Price began her career as an intern at Arthur Andersen & Co., later joining full-time to advise clients in the financial services, consumer packaged goods, and healthcare sectors.

With a career spanning finance, general management, and strategy roles across industries and locations including New York, Boston, London, and Chicago, Price brings a wealth of experience to her advisory work.

She earned an MBA in Finance and Strategy from the University of Chicago, and a BSc in Accountancy from DePaul University. She is a certified public accountant and served as Chair of Big Brothers Big Sisters of Eastern Massachusetts from 2014 to 2018, further demonstrating her dedication to mentoring and community leadership.

Price resides in Manhattan and Martha's Vineyard with her family, where she enjoys painting and outdoor activities.

Jeannie Mai

Emmy Award-Winning TV Host and Producer

Jeannie Mai Jenkins is an Emmy Award-winner and host of America's Test Kitchen: The Next Generation on Amazon Freevee. In addition, she can be seen as a sideline correspondent for ABC's extreme mini-golf competition series "Holey Moley." Previously, Mai Jenkins co-hosted the nationally syndicated talk show "The Real" for eight seasons. In May 2021, Mai was included in the Gold House A100 list, recognizing the most impactful leaders in the Asian community, and in 2020 she competed on season 29 of the hit ABC series "Dancing with the Stars." Mai and her fellow "The Real" co-hosts received multiple accolades, including a Daytime Emmy Award for Outstanding Talk Show Host, multiple Daytime Emmy nominations for Outstanding Talk Series, and an NAACP Image Award for Outstanding Talk Series.

In 2019, Mai launched her weekly web series, "Hello Hunnay," which takes fans on her journey through fashion, fitness, food, finances and relationships. As a self-described foodie, she enjoys the art of cooking and often showcases cultural cuisines with her family across her social platforms. Mai also hosts the podcast "Listen Hunnay," where she interviews everyone from sex therapists to divorce lawyers and morticians to crime scene investigators in an effort to understand the journeys at the heart of the human being behind the career. Mai partnered with Owl's Brew, a leader in tea-based spiked and sparkling beverages, as chief brand officer, assisting with new product innovations and overall brand strategy. In addition, Mai recently launched her first fashion collection in collaboration with Macy's, Jeannie Mai x INC.

In 2017, Mai executive produced "Stopping Traffic: The Movement to End Sex Trafficking," a documentary that investigates the international crisis of human sex trafficking from a deeply personal point of view. The follow up, "Stopping Traffic 2: Surviving Sex Trafficking," is now available on demand.

Gizelle George-Joseph

COO, Global Investment Research, Goldman Sachs

Gizelle George-Joseph, Partner, COO of Global Investment Research, Goldman Sachs

Gizelle is a partner and chief operating officer of the Global Investment Research division at Goldman Sachs. She has served in leading roles publishing research that addresses inclusive growth, including Black Womenomics , Equalizing Entrepreneurship, and Historically Black, Historically Underfunded: Investing in HBCUs. Gizelle is a member of the Goldman Sachs Firmwide Conduct Committee, the Americas Inclusion and Diversity Committee, the One Million Black Women Steering Council and serves as the firm's HBCU Alliance Sponsor.

Gizelle joined Goldman Sachs in 2005 and was named managing director in 2017 and partner in 2022.

Gizelle serves as co-chair of the board of Salisbury Community Development, a nonprofit focused on hurricane relief and economic development efforts on the island of Dominica. Gizelle earned a BS in Business Management from South Carolina State University, a historically Black college/university, and an MS in Clinical Psychology from Georgia Southern University. In 2021, she was named a fellow of the Finance Leaders Fellowship as part of the Aspen Global Leadership Network.

A quote about the importance of mentorship/ what mentorship means to you, for future social media use – Without mentors at every junction of my life, I wouldn't be where I am today. They have guided, prodded, believed, challenged, and supported. In turn, I have listened, been open-minded, taken feedback and walked in gratitude. I strongly believe mentoring can be life changing.

Gayle King

Co-Host, CBS Mornings, Editor at Large "Oprah Daily"

Bio coming soon!

Tammy Henault

Chief Marketing Officer, NBA

As Chief Marketing Officer of the NBA, Tammy Henault leads all global marketing efforts for the NBA and its affiliate leagues to engage fans and further the organization's mission to inspire and connect people everywhere through the power of basketball. Additionally, she plays a leading role in the development of the NBA's Next Gen platform, working alongside the product and content teams on the NBA App and NBA ID, the league's global membership program offering fans benefits and rewards.

Prior to joining the NBA in November 2022, Henault worked eight years at Paramount Global, most recently as Senior Vice President, Marketing, Streaming of Paramount+. She managed a team of more than 150 employees responsible for brand, partnership and performance marketing as well as audience development, customer acquisition and retention. In 2021, Henault led the marketing strategy for the global launch of Paramount+, which was named the year's No. 1 fastest growing brand in America by Morning Consult and drove record subscriptions. During her tenure at Paramount Global, she led award-winning campaigns for more than 100 original and exclusive shows and movies, including 1883, Halo, Star Trek: Discovery and The Good Fight, live sports programming and other original library content, and led the go-to-market strategy for CBS All Access, the first direct-to-consumer subscription service for a major U.S. television network.

Henault previously served as Managing Director of Consumer Marketing for Digital Products at The New York Times, where she led the acquisition and retention marketing team for the publication's highly successful digital subscription business. She also held various direct-to-consumer and performance marketing positions at PEOPLE, TIME and InStyle magazine divisions.

A 2024 Forbes Most Influential CMOs honoree, Henault has also been recognized as a 2023 American Advertising Federation Hall of Achievement inductee, a 2023 CMO to Watch by Business Insider, a 2021 Ad Age 40 Under 40 honoree and an A100 List honoree by Gold House. Henault earned her MBA from New York University's Stern School of Business and a bachelor's degree from the University of Pennsylvania.

Eden Bridgeman Sklenar

Owner and CEO, EBONY & Jet

Eden Bridgeman Sklenar is an entrepreneur, media proprietor, and marketing executive who is currently the owner, Chairwoman and CEO of the iconic brands EBONY and JET since their acquisition in 2021. She also serves as the CMO of Manna, Inc., which is the parent company that incorporates over 500 restaurant franchises that include Wendy's, Fazoli's, Golden Coral, Jimmy Johns and Mark's Feed Store, and has led in this capacity since 2016.

Eden was born in Los Angeles, California and grew up in Louisville, Kentucky where she attended the University of Louisville. She has been a part of Manna Inc since 2002, which is her family enterprise, founded by her father Junior Bridgeman in 1988. In 2013 Eden completed her MBA at Loyola University in Chicago where she graduated with honors and was inducted into International Business Honors Society. During this time, she also served as the head of marketing for ERJ Dining operating 125 Chili's franchises spanning 13 states. Eden currently serves as a Board Member for The Speed Art Museum, Kentucky Derby Museum, Oxmoor Farm Foundation, Task Force for Funds for the Arts, and the Louisville Ballet.

In addition, she is the Program Director and Board Member for the Bridgeman Charitable Group which focuses on access to education for at risk youth and cancer research support. In 2017 Eden launched The Trifecta which she is also currently the CEO. The Trifecta is an arm of the Bridgeman Charitable Group that produces one of kind experiences at some of the most notable yearly events in the United States including the Kentucky Derby.

Eden is married to Greg Sklenar and is a proud mother to two children. She is the daughter of Ulysses L. and Doris Bridgeman and has two brothers, Justin, and Ryan.

Carey Arensberg

Educator, Trauma and Resilience Specialist, Social Media Influencer, Alumni Big

Carey Arensberg is a social-emotional behavior specialist from Mobile, Alabama. She has been teaching children from all backgrounds since 2012. She holds several certifications in Trauma and Resilience practices and believes that knowledge is the key to her success as an educator. In 2015, Carey made a strong connection with two of her students, which turned into a mentorship through Big Brothers Big Sisters of the Central Gulf Coast. She continued to mentor them through middle and high school and considers them part of her family now that they are in their sophomore year of college. Carey believes that mentorship has shaped who she is today, and strongly advocates for it through her social media platforms. Recently featured in People Magazine, she is most well known for the creation of her "Care Closet" which has sparked a movement in classrooms all over the world. Mrs. Arensberg is passionate about her mission of educating the masses on trauma-informed practices and spreading positivity, encouragement, and ideas for running compassionate classrooms.

La La Anthony

Actress, Producer, Entrepreneur

Actress, Producer, New York Times Best-Selling Author, fashion-and-cosmetics mogul, La La has cemented her name in the rapidly growing media as a multi-hyphenate. As an entrepreneur, La La has had extreme success in the fashion and beauty industries. No stranger to the red carpet, La La hosted VOGUE's Met Gala live stream for her third year in a row.

Last summer, she collaborated with Pretty Little thing to create a brand new summer line which highlights size inclusivity. Continuing with her creativity, La Larecently created her own hair care line, Inala.

On the acting front, La La is most commonly known for her standout role as 'LaKeisha' in the hit Starz original drama series, "Power." The series which was executively produced by 50 Cent broke records as being one of the biggest premiere weekends for STARZ. Additional TV credits include Paramount+'s 'The Chi,' as well as starring opposite Poppy Montgomery in the A&E series "Unforgettable" CBS crime drama, "NYC 22" and the popular Vh1 scripted show, "Single Ladies". On the silver screen, La La can be seen in the critically acclaimed Spike Lee film "Chi-Raq" alongside a talented ensemble cast that includes Nick Cannon, Wesley Snipes, Angela Bassett and Samuel L. Jackson. Film credits include, "Think like a Man" and "Think Like a Man Too," alongside Gabrielle Union and Taraji P. Henson and "Baggage Claim" alongside Paula Patton and Derek Luke, "Double Play" directed by Ernest Dickerson. On stage, LaLa starred in the off-broadway production of "Love Loss and What I Wore" and made her Broadway producing debut with "Eclipsed" the celebrated drama starring Oscar winner Lupita Nyong'o. Eclipsed made history as the first all-female, all-black Broadway show. She can currently be seen in Starz, "BMF (Black Mafia Family)" as Markisha Taylor. Anthony brings an audacious yet tender element to her role. The third season premiered this past spring and announced it will be returning for a season 4.

La La is also a best-selling author. In her first book The Love Playbook (2014), La Lashares how she found love and success on her own terms. Within the first week the book climbed to #1 on the Barnes & Noble Best Seller list and hit Number One on the New York Times Best Sellers List. La La followed with her second book The Power Playbook. It was recently announced that her bestseller, The Love Playbook is being turned into a series, Group Chat. Anthony is set to headline the comedy. It is currently in development for Hulu.

Multi-faceted, La La spearheads a mentorship program in New York city's Rikers Island. She mentors young men ranging between the ages of 18–21 years old who are incarcerated, specifically in the Robert N. Davoren (RNDC) Complex. Weekly interactions and meetings focus on life-building skills that are helpful during their time incarcerated and instrumental to re-entry into the community upon release. The team works to develop one-on-one connections with each of the young men, building trust, and solid relationships among the group and with each other individually.

This year, Anthony announced her partnership with Aribnb as a creative advisor and Host! La La will lead strategic alignment and relationships with key entertainment partners, including celebrities, influencers, studios, production companies, and more to increase and sustain diverse representation, as well as incubate products and programs that connect talent and entertainment partners with their passionate communities. Her first project with them is La La Land, a unique and stylish listing in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, that's been carefully designed and perfected by La La to host her favorite kind of trip: a getaway with besties. La La is inviting guests to La La Land to experience travel, her way – with some highlights of the stay including full, private access to the entire 2,491 square foot property with five customized bedrooms and a picture-perfect outdoor patio and pool for lounging; all the amenities needed for a luxurious stay like high-quality linens, a fully-stocked kitchen, and hair care products from La La's own brand, Inala.

La La can now be seen starring as 'Janet' in Lifetime's film, 'The Bad Guardian.' The film is guaranteed to pull on heartstrings as it follows a story which seems to be more prevalent than ever. The film premiered on Saturday, May 18th on Lifetime.

Trymaine Lee

Pulitzer Prize winning journalist, MSNBC Correspondent, Alumni Big

Trymaine Lee is a Pulitzer Prize and Emmy-award winning journalist and correspondent for NBC News and MSNBC. He's also the host of the "Into America" podcast where he covers the intersection of race, power, and politics.

He's covered uprisings, the fragility of freedom and democracy, and has been at the center of some of the country's biggest news stories of the past two decades, including Hurricane Katrina and the Ferguson protests after the killing of Mike Brown. He is widely credited as the first national journalist to write about the shooting of Trayvon Martin, helping to elevate the case into national consciousness as a senior reporter at the Huffington Post. He's also worked for the Philadelphia Tribune, the New Orleans Times-Picayune, and the New York Times. Since 2012, he's been a correspondent for MSNBC.

Trymaine is a contributing author to the "1619 Project," a 2023 Webby Award winner for a podcast series on the Reconstruction era's unfulfilled promises, a 2021 Sigma Delta Chi Award winner for his documentary on the Tulsa Race Massacre, the winner of multiple NABJ Salute to Excellence Awards, a 3-time NAACP Image Award Nominee, and a past recipient of AdWeek's Podcast Host of the Year. He is a former New America and Harvard Institute of Politics fellow and has been named to The Root 100 and Ebony Power 100 lists of most influential African Americans.

Trymaine is currently writing a book on Black life, death, and violence in America with St. Martin's Press.

Ray Davis

Running Back, Buffalo Bills, Alumni Little

Ray Davis, born in San Francisco, California, emerged from the foster care system as one of 15 siblings, learning early the value of resilience and determination. Raised with steadfast support from guardians Lora Banks and Greg Ley, he cultivated a passion for sports and academics.

At Blair Academy in N.J., Ray excelled as a running back and defensive back, amassing 4,815 rushing yards and 59 touchdowns. Despite challenges, his path to collegiate football began at Temple University, where he earned Freshman All-America honors with 936 rushing yards and eight touchdowns.

Transferring to Vanderbilt University for 2020-2021, Ray rebounded from injury to rush for 1,042 yards, earning All-SEC recognition and becoming a Comeback Player of the Year semifinalist. In 2023, he joined the University of Kentucky, setting a school record with 21 touchdowns—14 rushing, 7 receiving—and totaling 1,129 rushing yards and 323 receiving yards.

Ray garnered Second Team All-America from Sports Illustrated and multiple All-SEC nods, graduating with a communications studies degree from Vanderbilt and a business certificate from Kentucky.

Beyond football, Ray loves poetry and aspires to pursue a career in sports broadcasting or coaching after his playing days are over. His journey from foster care to record-setting running back inspires athletes and children alike.

Selected 128th overall by the Buffalo Bills in the 2024 Draft, Ray advocates for foster care awareness while preparing for a promising professional football career, aiming to leave a positive impact on and off the field.

Osa Odighizuwa

Defensive Tackle, Dallas Cowboys, Alumni Little

Before Osa Odighizuwa was the starting tackle for the Dallas Cowboys, he was the youngest of four boys and was born In Dayton Ohio on a pile of clothes in his mother's bathroom.

Osa spent most of his childhood in Portland, Oregon and it was during this time that Osa discovered the Big Brother Big Sister program. Osa eventually enrolled at David Douglas High School. Where he was a two-sport athlete in football and wrestling. OSA was a 3x state wrestling champion, and actually didn't lose a match after his freshman year. That's right; the youngest Odighizuwa family member was undefeated for three straight years.

After graduating from high school Osa followed in his oldest brother (Owa Odighizuwa) footsteps and took a scholarship to play football at UCLA. Osa would spend the next 5 years at UCLA where he became one of the best Defensive tackles in the pac-12 and finished his college career in the middle of the Covid pandemic.

Osa would follow in Owa's footsteps again in 2021; when Osa was drafted by the Dallas Cowboys in the 3rd round ( going #75 overall). Owa was drafted #74 overall to the NY Giants in the 2016 NFL draft.

OSA was able to make an early impact as he arrived in dallas. OSA was listed as the starting DT during training camp, and he never looked back. As a rookie Osa anchored a very talented Cowboys defense line that helped America's team win 12 games during Osa rookie season Osa was named to the nfl.com all-rookie team during the 2021-2022 season.

Osa's impact was not just felt on the football field in Dallas as he quickly got involved with the community of DFW. Osa and his family started the Odighizuwa Foundation in 2022.

Hill Harper

Award-winning actor, New York Times bestselling author, Philanthropist, Alumni Big

Hill Harper is an eight-year Detroit resident and small business owner. He is an activist, humanitarian, cancer survivor, union leader, award-winning actor, best-selling author, entrepreneur, single father and he is currently a candidate to represent Michigan as its next United States Senator.

Harper served on the President's Cancer Panel, which made cancer policy recommendations to the White House, having been appointed by President Obama in 2011.Additionally, Harper has authored four New York Times bestsellers: including his multiple award-winning book, Letters to a Young Brother: Manifest Your Destiny. Harper has been recognized with seven NAACP Image Awards, four for his writing and three as best lead male in a drama series for his portrayal of Dr. Sheldon Hawkes on CSI: NY. He is the founder of the Manifest Your Destiny Foundation, a nonprofit dedicated to empowering underserved youth through mentorship, scholarship and grant programs; and has established The Pierce and Hill Harper Arts Foundation.

Harper graduated magna cum laude from Brown University with a Bachelor of Arts degree and was named Valedictorian of his department. Harper then graduated with a J.D. (cum laude) from Harvard Law School, as well as with a Master's Degree in Public Administration, with honors, from the Kennedy School of Government. Harper also completed Marine Corps Officer Candidates School in Quantico, VA. He has been awarded 10 honorary doctoral degrees, including degrees from Howard University and Providence College.

As an investor and business owner, Harper owns a successful coffee franchise in downtown Detroit called The Roasting Plant, is co-owner of A-Frame Brands and the award-winning New Orleans hotel, International House. His passion for economic empowerment, financial literacy, job creation, and social justice keeps him as an in-demand thought leading consultant for public and private institutions. He is a proud Life Member of Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc

Michael McCullough

Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer – The Miami HEAT, Current Big

Michael McCullough's role with the Miami HEAT could best be described as the "brand architect" for the club. Viewed as an extremely versatile and well-respected senior NBA business executive, he sports a 38-year track record of establishing new benchmarks and best practices for sports marketing and fan engagement while producing highly effective marketing, branding and results-oriented corporate partnership programs. McCullough oversees the Marketing, Digital Marketing, Social Media, Creative, Retail Marketing and Operations, Business Communications, Social Responsibility, Game Presentation and Events, Broadcasting, Content and Broadcast Services for the Miami HEAT and Kaseya Center.

As part of the 2022 NBA Sales and Marketing Awards, the Miami HEAT were named the "2022 Team of the Year". The award recognizes demonstrated excellence in business performance across both key revenue drivers and operational focus areas such as people and culture, and community impact. The Team of the Year Award was determined by a selection committee comprised of team and league executives.

Additionally, McCullough and Steve Stowe, Vice President / Executive Director of the Miami HEAT Charitable Fund were the co-winners of the "Values of the Game" Award, which recognizes an individual or individuals who inspire and connect people everywhere, but specifically in their community, through the power of basketball. McCullough and Stowe won for their combined efforts in launching a first-of-its-kind partnership with the City of Miami Police Department and Dedication to Community (D2C) through a unique community policing program designed to help bridge the gap between Black and Brown city residents and local law enforcement. A pilot program was first announced on September 3, 2020, which consisted of approximately 75 officers participating in the training. The HEAT has since announced the expansion of the program to include training of the entire Miami Police Department, including approximately 900 uniformed officers. The program has since branched out to include a pilot program with the Miami-Dade County Police Department, one of the largest law enforcement agencies in the United States.

As "chief evangelist," for the HEAT, McCullough guides and directs both internal and external brand communication and activation strategies, while acting as the "voice" of the franchise to employees and media alike, oftentimes assuming an alter ego personality to foster employee engagement.

McCullough and his team revolutionized NBA Playoff marketing campaigns by being the first team to successfully and consistently implement the fan engagement focused color-themed Playoff promotional programs for the HEAT. "White Hot" remains the most successful and well-known such campaign among NBA franchises.

We dig uniforms and integrated marketing campaigns! Under McCullough's watch, the HEAT has implemented the NBA's most aggressive and successful City Edition uniform campaigns, with the "Vice" uniform campaign re-writing the record books in terms of retail sales, media coverage and fan engagement, only to be followed by and topped by the "Miami Mashup Vol. 1 and Vol.2" uniform campaigns.

File under: "Things I Never Thought I Would Get To Do In My Career": McCullough is the point-person for the HEAT Business Operations division for all Championship-related activities, including the design and distribution of the three HEAT Championship rings for players, staff and families.

"Bigs and Littles" – McCullough has been a "Big" in the Big Brothers Big Sisters Program since 2008. Since that time, McCullough has been fortunate enough to work with four outstanding young men, helping to shepherd them through their high school years, into college and beyond, maintaining relationships with each Little well beyond the formal end of the mentorship period.

Prior to joining The HEAT Group, McCullough was with the Sacramento Kings (1988-90; 1992-97) and the National Basketball Association (1990-92).

McCullough was a three-year starter for the Utah State Aggies basketball team (during the short-shorts era 1980-84). McCullough and his wife, Valeria, live in the Edgewater area of downtown Miami with their dog, Mateo. A certified "vinyl junkie", McCullough maintains a large collection of vinyl records and has turntables both at home and in his office, where vinyl can be seen and heard playing loudly.

Scott Uzzell

GM, Nike North America

Scott Uzzell is the Vice President and General Manager of Nike North America where he leads a +$23B business with 25,000 employees across all aspects of Nike and Jordan Brand footwear and apparel including brand marketing, retail, digital engagement and e-commerce, sports marketing, and distribution. Nike North America is the largest reported geographic unit of NIKE, Inc.

Prior to this role Scott was President & CEO of Converse, Inc. for +4 years where he led all aspects of the business globally, and oversaw the brand's return to basketball after a 10-year hiatus from the sport.

Scott joined Converse, Inc. from The Coca-Cola Company where he served as President and General Manager, Venturing and Emerging Brands Group (VEB) and led the development of a portfolio of high-growth brands, including Honest Tea, ZICO Coconut Water, Health Ade, Fairlife Milk and Body Armor.

Scott began his career within sales and marketing for elite consumer goods companies, such as Procter & Gamble, The Coca-Cola Company, and Nabisco, before returning to The Coca-Cola Company in 2001 to hold a number of leadership positions across its business including Global Vice President New Business Development, CEO ZICO Beverage Co and Vice President Marketing, VEB.

In addition, Scott serves on the board of SC Johnson Company. Scott is also a member of the Florida A&M University Foundation board as well as a member of the Executive Leadership Council (ELC). He is also a Trustee at Woodruff Arts Center and University of Chicago, Booth School of Business.

Scott received his B.S. in Business from Florida A&M University and his MBA from the University of Chicago, Booth School of Business. Scott has a personal passion for sports like skiing, golf, basketball and cycling, as well as spending time with his family. Scott and wife Sunda have two children – a son, Tanner and daughter, Sawyer.

Dale Long

50 Year Big Brothers Big Sisters Volunteer, 8x Big Brother

Dale Hawkins Long is a survivor of the September 1963 bombing of the Sixteenth Street Baptist Church in Birmingham, AL, where four of his friends were tragically killed and twenty-seven people injured. He and his late brother, Kenneth escaped unscathed. In September 2023 Dale spent a week visiting in Birmingham where he participated in several events commemorating the 60th anniversary of the bombing.

Dale's experience in Birmingham led him to dedicate his life to volunteering. The recipient of numerous awards for volunteer service, for five decades he has been a mentor with Big Brothers and Big Sisters. Dale was honored to be named the 1989 National Big Brother of the Year. In 2007 he was the recipient of the Clifford B. Norman, National Local Board Member of the Year. Last summer he received the inaugural Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Big Brother of the Year at its 97th General Convention in Dallas.

Dale is a speaker on the national platform who has shared his role in American History as a primary source of Jim Crow, 60's era, Birmingham with organizations including the National Urban League, Congressional Black Caucus, the United Methodist Church's General Conference, the University of Michigan, Rutgers University, Texas Wesleyan University, Dallas College, Collin County Community College, the University of Dallas, Texas Southern University, Southern Methodist University, the University of Wyoming, The Dallas Holocaust and Human Rights Museum, The National MENTOR Summitt, ONCOR Electric Delivery, The American Heart Association, the Dallas Black Dance Theater and the Cities of Dallas, Ft. Worth and Plano. In 1990 he shared the podium at the White House with President George H. W. Bush as the President announced one of his Youth Engaged in Service initiatives. In 2004 during the 40th anniversary commemoration of the 1964 Civil Rights Act, President George W. Bush included in his White House addresses one of Dale's childhood memories of growing up in Birmingham. For volunteer work, Dale has garnered media attention from Forbes, Essence, Time and Ebony Magazines, the Dallas Morning News, PBS, CNN, C-Span, the Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity Sphinx Magazine, the NBC Nightly News and is listed in the 2011 Grio 100.

Dale was born in Tuskegee, Alabama and reared in Birmingham where he graduated from high school in 1970. He accepted a music scholarship, becoming a member of the famous "Ocean of Soul" Marching Band of Texas Southern University, Houston, TX, where he earned the Bachelor of Science Degree in 1974.

He is a member of the Garland Branch NAACP, the Leadership Dallas Alumni Association, Kappa Kappa Psi National Honorary Band Fraternity, a Life member of Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, a Life member of the Texas Southern University National Alumni Association – Dallas Chapter, Dallas Holocaust and Human Rights Museum Suvivors Speakers Bureau, a Research Advocate with UT Southwest Medical Center, Dallas and a member of Kidsinbirmingham1963.org.

A resident of Garland, Texas he is the former Community Outreach Coordinator/Public Information Officer for the City of Dallas Public Works Department where he retired in April 2018. Previously he worked for a contractor on the NASA Space Shuttle Program, Houston, Texas Instruments in Dallas, The City of Garland, Texas and a contractor with the Dallas Area Rapid Transit Light Rail Design and Construction Project.

Dale and his wife Ellen Scott Long are proud parents of adult daughters Kendra Dale and Amber Nicole and are members of Hamilton Park United Methodist Church in Dallas. In his spare time Dale enjoys reading, music and photography. A retired marathoner, Dale now does "power walking" and practices yoga.

Dennis Brown

CEO Emeritus, Big Brothers Big Sisters Hawai'i

Dennis Brown was born in Lincoln, Nebraska to a dad originally from Texas and a mom born and raised in Japan as a Japanese national. When Mr. Brown was five years old, his parents divorced and his mom moved him and his younger brother to Hawaii. In 1964, living in low income public housing and being raised by his single mom, Dennis was fortunate to become the first boy successfully matched to his Big Brother mentor, Henry Sumida, by Big Brothers of Hawaii.

After graduating high school in 1972, Dennis served four years in the U.S. Air Force. Upon his honorable discharge, he attended the University of Hawaii at Manoa where he earned both a Bachelor's Degree in Sociology and a Master's Degree in Urban & Regional Planning with a concentration in social service administration and planning.

Dennis's first job after graduate school was as a Community Planner for the City and County of Honolulu's Department of General Planning. Beginning in 1987, Dennis began a career directing various community-based organizations in the human services field including project director of Areawide Horizons for Senior Citizens, a comprehensive program providing advocacy and other services for elderly residents, and program director of Lanakila Meals on Wheels.

In 1998, Dennis was hired as President/CEO of Big Brothers Big Sisters of Honolulu. After 25 years in that position, he retired as CEO in 2023 with the double distinctions of being both the first child served and the longest-serving chief executive in the agency's 60-year history. Among Dennis's proudest achievements was successfully merging the Honolulu and Maui independent affiliates and expanding services to include the islands of Kaua'i and Hawai'i to create a single statewide organization in 2012 now known as Big Brothers Big Sisters Hawaii. During Dennis's tenure as CEO, the Hawaii affiliate grew from 11 staffers serving 250 youth each year with an annual budget of $600,000; to 25 staffers, nearly 1,400 children and youth served yearly (prior to the COVID-19 pandemic), and an annual budget of $2.5 million.

Dennis's service on local community boards has included being a founding member of the Hawaii Intergenerational Network; member and president of the Hawaii Pacific Gerontological Society; trustee and chair of the Hawaii Employers Council; and current board member of both the Hawaii Tax Foundation and the Hawaii Youth Services Network.

Dennis also served on national councils and committees for Big Brothers Big Sisters of America (BBBSA) including the Nationwide Leadership Council (two terms); as a founding member of the Mid-Large Agency Alliance (MLAA) with 10+ years on its executive committee; the legislative advocacy committee; and the national 2020-2024 strategic plan core advisory committee.

Erin Scanlon

Partner, Deloitte & Touche LLP

President, Deloitte Foundation

Erin is an Audit & Assurance partner at Deloitte & Touche LLP with more than 35 years of experience. She currently serves some of the organization's largest and most complex clients. Erin has held many leadership roles including her most recent as the Global Audit & Assurance Clients & Industries leader. Prior to her global role, she was the firm's US Telecom, Media & Entertainment Audit & Assurance leader. Erin has significant experience leading audits for global companies and has extensive experience with industry-related complex transactions, accounting issues, SEC registrations, and compliance matters.

Erin is also the president of the Deloitte Foundation, a US nonprofit preparing the next generation for the future of work. The Foundation is accelerating equity, innovation, and excellence in education through strategic investments in student, educator, and school success. Support includes scholarships for students ages 16-24, faculty resources, and matching US Deloitte professionals' higher education donations to advance learning pathways in business, accounting, and STEM education.

Erin is married to her husband, Brendan, and lives in New York City. They have three children, Bridget who is also a Big Sister, Deirdre, and Sean. She is a graduate of Villanova University and received her MBA from Columbia Business School. Erin is involved with several nonprofit organizations that focus on education and mentoring including Big Brothers Big Sisters of New York City. She became a Big Sister 30 years ago and is still in close contact with her first Little Sister. Erin has been a Big Brothers Big Sisters of New York City Board member since 2005.

Hill Harper

New York Times Best-Selling Author, Award-Winning Actor, Entrepreneur, Philanthropist

Hill Harper is an eight-year Detroit resident and small business owner. He is an activist, humanitarian, cancer survivor, union leader, award-winning actor, best-selling author, entrepreneur, and single father and he is currently a candidate to represent Michigan as its next United

States Senator.

Harper served on the President's Cancer Panel, which made cancer policy recommendations to the White House, having been appointed by President Obama in 2011. Additionally, Harper has authored four New York Times bestsellers: including his multiple award-winning book, Letters to a Young Brother: Manifest Your Destiny. Harper has been recognized with seven NAACP Image Awards, four for his writing and three as the best lead male in a drama series for his portrayal of Dr. Sheldon Hawkes on CSI: NY. He is the founder of the Manifest Your Destiny Foundation, a nonprofit dedicated to empowering underserved youth through mentorship, scholarship, and grant programs; and has established The Pierce and Hill Harper Arts Foundation.

Harper graduated magna cum laude from Brown University with a Bachelor of Arts degree and was named Valedictorian of his department. Harper then graduated with a J.D. (cum laude) from Harvard Law School, as well as with a Master's Degree in Public Administration, with honors, from the Kennedy School of Government. Harper also completed Marine Corps Officer Candidates School in Quantico, VA. He has been awarded 10 honorary doctoral degrees, including degrees from Howard University and Providence College.

As an investor and business owner, Harper owns a successful coffee franchise in downtown Detroit called The Roasting Plant and is co-owner of A-Frame Brands and the award-winning New Orleans hotel, International House. His passion for economic empowerment, financial literacy, job creation, and social justice keeps him an in-demand thought-leading consultant for public and private institutions. He is a proud Life Member of Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc.

Marissa Solis

Sr. Vice President – Global Brand and Consumer Marketing, National Football League

Marissa Solis is a magnetic business leader with over 25 years of expertise in business consulting, CPG, Retail, and Sports marketing. Currently, Marissa leads all global brand and consumer marketing initiatives for the NFL, including all national advertising, traditional and digital media initiatives, in-stadium marketing, and new fan development.

A graduate of Georgetown University with a B.S. in International Economics and the University of Texas at Austin with an M.A. in Public Policy, she began her career in brand management at Procter & Gamble Latin America, where she led marketing for brands like Ariel, Downy, and Pampers in Central America and the Caribbean.

Marissa spent a few years as a management consultant at Deloitte Consulting, leading change initiatives and communication consulting for Public Sector clients. She also spent time as a political consultant, contributing to the communication strategies of key campaigns in Texas and Mexico. In 2003, she took a role in marketing at Pepsico's Frito Lay North America Division. During her 18-year tenure at Pepsico, Marissa led numerous brand marketing initiatives and national campaigns for globally renowned food and beverage brands like Doritos and Pepsi. She also held roles in shopper marketing and sales for key PepsiCo retail customers like Walmart, Target, and Costco.

In 2017, Marissa led the creation of a cross-functional Hispanic Business Unit – the first of its kind – winning Industry Recognition for work to engage Latinos in key brand initiatives. She went on to lead marketing for brands at Frito Lay North America, including the coveted relationship with the NFL. She won several Reggies, Sports Clios, and a Grand Prix Cannes Lion for her work on Cheetos, Doritos, and Tostitos brands. In 2021, Marissa was recognized by Adweek as one of the Most Powerful Women in Sports for elevating the football-watching occasion with the NFL and Frito Lay partnership. In 2023, Marissa and her team won a Sports Emmy for the "She Runs It" Superbowl campaign featuring star flag football player Diana Flores.

In addition to her full-time marketing position, Marissa serves on the Board of Directors of Consolidated Communications, a leading broadband and business communications provider that serves wireless and wireline customers across rural and metro communities. She is a new member of the Board of Directors of AIMM – Alliance for Inclusive and Multicultural Marketing. She also serves as a board member on the North Texas Chapter of the Make-a-Wish Foundation and The Melville Family Foundation, an organization dedicated to improving the lives of minority children in Dallas. She has a third-degree black belt in Tae Kwon Do and resides in McKinney, Texas, with her husband Juan and 18-year-old daughter Gabriela.

OSA Odighizuwa

Defensive Tackle, Dallas Cowboys

Before Osa Odighizuwa was the starting tackle for the Dallas Cowboys, he was the youngest of four boys and was born In Dayton Ohio on a pile of clothes in his mother's bathroom.

Osa spent most of his childhood in Portland, Oregon and it was during this time that Osa discovered the Big Brother Big Sister program. Osa eventually enrolled at David Douglas High School. Where he was a two-sport athlete in football and wrestling. OSA was a 3x state wrestling champion and actually didn't lose a match after his freshman year. That's right; the youngest Odighizuwa family member was undefeated for three straight years.

After graduating from high school Osa followed in his oldest brother's (Owa Odighizuwa) footsteps and took a scholarship to play football at UCLA. Osa would spend the next 5 years at UCLA where he became one of the best Defensive tackles in the pac-12 and finished his college career in the middle of the Covid pandemic.

Osa would follow in Owa's footsteps again in 2021; when Osa was drafted by the Dallas Cowboys in the 3rd round (going #75 overall). Owa was drafted #74 overall by the NY Giants in the 2016 NFL draft.

Osa was able to make an early impact as he arrived in Dallas. OSA was listed as the starting defensive tackle during training camp, and he never looked back. As a rookie Osa anchored a very talented Cowboys defense line that helped America's team win 12 games during Osa's rookie season Osa was named to the nfl.com all-rookie team during the 2021-2022 season.

Osa's impact was not just felt on the football field in Dallas as he quickly got involved with the community of DFW. Osa and his family started the Odighizuwa Foundation in 2022.

Emily Chen Carrera

Private Wealth Estate Specialist & Chief of Research, Olshan Realty

Emily Chen Carrera is Chief of Research at Olshan Realty and manages the Private Wealth Real Estate Services, providing brokerage expertise along with research and consulting capabilities. She co-founded the Olshan Luxury Market Report, a weekly real-time snapshot of the New York City residential real estate market, which became the industry standard and revolutionized how the market is analyzed and evaluated in real time.

Chen was previously a Vice President in Institutional Sales at Goldman Sachs and a Senior Consultant in the Capital Markets Group at PwC.

President Biden appointed Chen as a Commissioner to the President's Advisory Commission on Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders. The Commission advises the President on ways the public, private, and nonprofit sectors can work together to advance equity and opportunity for every Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander community.

A former National Big Sister of the Year, Chen serves on the boards of Big Brothers Big Sisters of America and the Big Brothers Big Sisters of America Charitable Foundation. She also sits on the Board of Directors of the Beau Biden Foundation. Chen is on the Women & Science Committee at Rockefeller University, the Creative Council at The Shed, and the Advisory Board of The Imagine Society. She was named a Tiffany & Co. Hometown Hero for her work supporting healthcare professionals and first responders during the COVID-19 pandemic. Chen is the past president of the American Friends of The Royal Foundation of The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge. She was previously a Director and Advisory Council Co-Chair of The Catholic Big Sisters and Big Brothers of New York City (now Bigs & Littles NYC Mentoring).

A graduate of Georgetown University, Chen is a recipient of the John Carroll Award, the highest alumni honor. She served on Georgetown's Board of Regents and the Advisory Board of the McDonough School of Business. Chen is Co-Founder and Executive Producer of Stand Up For Georgetown which benefits the Georgetown Scholars Program for first-generation and low-income students.

Aloe Blacc

Singer, Songwriter, Philantropist

Raised on salsa, merengue, and cumbia, Blacc fell in love with hip-hop as a kid and started writing rap songs when he was nine. With his lyrics drawing influence from socially conscious artists like KRS-One, he put out his first hip-hop mixtape at age 17. Later developing a fierce admiration for such soul musicians as Donny Hathaway and Marvin Gaye, he also discovered an affinity for folk-rock singer/songwriters during his college years. "One of the most important factors in my transition from hip-hop to being a singer was listening to people like Joni Mitchell, James Taylor, Kris Kristofferson, and Cat Stevens," Blacc says. "Their songs are full of emotion that's expressed in strong lyrics, and that had a big impact on me."

After inking a deal with indie label Stones Throw, Blacc released his solo debut Shine Through in 2006 and sophomore album Good Things in 2010. Boosted by the breakout success of "I Need a Dollar" (which was selected as the theme song to HBO's How To Make it In America), Good Things reached gold status in countries around the world and paved the way for his signing to XIX Recordings/Interscope Records in 2012. Made in collaboration with groundbreaking producers like Pharrell Williams, Lift Your Spirit dropped on New Year's Day in 2014, debuted at #4 on the Billboard 200 albums chart, and earned a Grammy Award nomination for Best R&B Album.

Looking back on his musical path so far, Blacc notes that landing a deal with XIX Recordings/Interscope prompted a major moment of reckoning, and led him to re-examine his artistic intentions. "When I signed a major-label contract, I recognized the power of having a larger audience, and I promised myself that I'd use my voice for social change," he says. And in creating his upcoming album, Blacc has kept focused on making music meant to inspire a positive shift in mindset. "When things happening in the world seem so terrible and dark, it's so easy to get stuck in all the negative," he says. "But I try to do whatever I can to help people out of that. I want my music to be the light."

"GRIFF"

Comedian, Motivational Speaker, Co-Host of Get Up! Mornings with Erica Campbell

Comedian, motivational speaker, and veteran on-air personality, "GRIFF" is the co-host of Get Up! Mornings with Erica Campbell! This author and father of five has forged his career at the intersection of faith, philanthropy and humor. With an infectious energy and unmistakable voice, "GRIFF" contributes laughter, sincerity and real world approach to living inspiration out loud

Nate Burleson

Co-Host, CBS Mornings and The NFL Today

Nate Burleson is an Emmy Award-winning studio analyst and sports personality. He is currently the co-host of CBS Mornings. He is also on CBS's The NFL Today and NFL Slimetime on Nickelodeon. Burleson won the Emmy Award for outstanding sports personality/studio analyst for his work on The NFL Today back-to-back in 2021 and 2022. Prior to joining CBS's News Division, Burleson served as a host on NFL Networks' Emmy Award-winning show Good Morning Football. Burleson was selected by the Minnesota Vikings in the 2003 NFL Draft. During his career, he also played for the Seattle Seahawks and Detroit Lions.

Daymond John

CEO & Founder of FUBU

Star of ABC's Shark Tank

CEO of The Shark Group

An entrepreneur in every sense of the word, Daymond John has come a long way from taking out a $100,000 mortgage on his mother's house and moving his operation into the basement. John is CEO and Founder of FUBU, a much-celebrated global lifestyle brand with over $6 billion in product sales and a pioneer in the fashion industry. John is a celebrated entrepreneur having received over 35 awards throughout his career, including the Brandweek Marketer of the Year, Ernst & Young's New York Entrepreneur of the Year, was named #2 on LinkedIn's 2020 Top Voices list for US Influencers, and has won four Webby Awards for his event, Black Entrepreneur's Day.

In 2023, John authored one of the "most anticipated children's book of the year", Little Daymond Learns to Earn. Instantly becoming a New York Times best-seller and ranking #1 on Amazon's Top 100 Books, Little Daymond Learns to Earn teaches children the fundamentals of financial literacy and money management with a fun and engaging storyline. John is also the author of five best-selling books including his New York Times best-selling books, The Power of Broke (2016) and Rise and Grind (2018).

John's marketing strategies and ability to build successful brands have made him a highly influential consultant and motivational speaker today. His marketing firm The Shark Group offers expertise in marketing strategy and connects brands with the world's top celebrities for everything from endorsements to product extensions.

Finally, he is celebrating 15th season on ABC's hit business show Shark Tank by acclaimed producer Mark Burnett. The show has gone on to win four Emmy Awards and consistently maintains millions of weekly viewers who tune in to the show every Friday night as John demonstrates his marketing prowess and entrepreneurial insights.

Wayne Brady

Emmy Award-winning Actor, Producer, TV Personality

Alumni Big

Multiple Emmy Award-winning and Grammy Award-nominated Wayne Brady has made his mark on stage and screen as an actor, producer, singer, dancer, songwriter, and television personality.

A true multi-hyphenate, Brady's career path and personal life journey have helped him see the world in a unique way. His aspirations have always gone beyond solely starring in various entertainment projects, and under his A Wayne & Mandie Creative banner. He's set out to create new content across different platforms that showcase innovation and inclusivity in fun and powerful ways.

A five-time Emmy winner (the first to win Daytime and Primetime awards in two consecutive years), Brady has an impressive TV resume including Whose Line Is It Anyway?, The Masked Singer, Dancing With The Stars, Black Lightning, The Good Fight, and Showtime's American Gigolo– each spotlighting different aspects of his immense talent.

In February 2024, Brady will star in an upcoming Hulu docuseries following his blended family, alongside his ex-wife, best friend and business partner Mandie Taketa, their 20-year-old daughter Maile, and Mandie's partner Jason. The series is produced by Wayne and Mandie's joint production company, A Wayne and Mandie Creative, along with Fremantle.

In addition to being a force in front of the camera, Brady is heavily active behind the scenes wearing the hats of host & executive producer for Let's Make A Deal, Game of Talents, and Comedy IQ, which he also co-created through his production company. All of this follows on the heels of the success of his award-winning daytime talk show The Wayne Brady Show.

Long an accomplished singer and performer, Brady's musical acumen has always been a personal passion and he used that as fuel to help win the second season of The Masked Singer. Off his victory, Brady dropped a brand-new original single, entitled "Flirtin' w/ Forever," which quickly climbed the streaming charts, as well as an accompanying music video.

This follows the success of his debut album which was headlined by a version of Sam Cooke's "A Change is Gonna Come" which earned him a Grammy Award nomination in the Best Traditional R&B Vocal Performance category.

Spring of 2024 Brady returns to Broadway in the all-new production of The Wiz, leading the cast as the titular character. The highly-anticipated musical features award-winning creatives and producers including Common, MC Lyte, Amber Ruffin, Hannah Beachler, Sharen Davis, among others.

Brady made his Broadway debut starring as legal showman 'Billy Flynn' in the long-running hit musical, Chicago. Soon after Brady starred as the ground-breaking character 'Lola' in Kinky Boots, Broadway's Tony Award-winning Best Musical, with music and lyrics by Cyndi Lauper and a book by Harvey Fierstein. Brady would later headline as 'Aaron Burr' in the Chicago production of Lin-Manuel Miranda's Tony Award-winning juggernaut Hamilton.

Brady again joined forces with Lin-Manuel Miranda, and the duo along with Thomas Kail and Anthony Veneziale, created Freestyle Love Supreme. The unique show combined the fusion of hip hop, improv, and comedy which won a special Tony Award for its innovation and contributions to the world of theater. The Freestyle Love Supreme team partnered with San Francisco improv company Speechless, Inc to create "freestyle+," an educational training platform committed to making improv globally accessible.

Advocacy is core to Brady's life. He champions the need for more resources and better understanding of mental health issues, especially in the Black community. Brady's public announcement about his pansexuality brings awareness to an underrepresented community and he continues to support and promote LGBTQIA+ causes and organizations such as Broadway Backwards and Gay Men's Chorus of Los Angeles. Brady is a longtime supporter of the Big Brothers Big Sisters of America, Alzheimer's Foundation of America and SAY The Stuttering Association for the Young.

Brady currently resides in Los Angeles.

Raachad White

Running Back, Tampa Bay Buccaneers

Alumni Little

Born in Kansas City, MO as the youngest of four boys, Rachaad has always been active. His mother, Rochelle, always emphasized respect for elders, honoring your word, being true to yourself, and being thankful for what you have. Rochelle enrolled all of her boys in the Big Brothers Big Sisters program, seeking additional mentorship and positive male role models for her sons. Naturally, Rachaad couldn't wait to find his match after seeing the opportunities his older brothers had. Rachaad played multiple sports growing up but excelled most at basketball and football. At Center High School in Kansas City, he went on to become All State in football and All Conference in basketball. Surprisingly, he wasn't recruited by any D1 schools so he committed to a Division II school, Nebraska Kearney. Once there, his teammates saw what a great player he was and suggested he transfer to a Junior College, which would then lead him towards his goal of playing for a Power 5, Division 1 school. He took their advice and transferred to Mt San Antonio College in Walnut, California. At Mt Sac, he became a top Running Back in the nation before committing to Arizona State. At Arizona State, his ascent continued, leading the team in both rushing and receiving which caught the attention of all 32 NFL teams. In April of 2022, his ultimate dream came true. He was selected as the 91st overall pick by the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. In his first year in the NFL, he played alongside Tom Brady, took over the starting Running Back role, contributed to the team's playoff berth, and lead all rookie Running Backs in receiving. Rachaad resides in the Tampa area, is a devoted father to a beautiful daughter named Nevaeh, and loyal friend to many.

Tony Coles

President, Black Information Network, iHeartMedia

BBBSA National Board Member

Tony Coles is regarded as one of the audio industry's leading authorities. In addition to being known for his experience successfully leading and growing iconic media brands, Coles also founded and currently operates the groundbreaking Black Information Network. Recognized for his innovative approach to content creation, exceptional leadership style, and consistent results, he is one of the most respected executives in audio.

Coles currently holds dual roles at iHeartMedia, the #1 audio company in America. He serves as Division President of Metro Markets, a position that has given him P&L oversight for over 150 radio stations in 21 markets across the United States. Coles is also the Founder and President of the Black Information Network, a 24/7 All News Channel dedicated to serving the Black community. In less than three years BIN has grown to include a national streaming service, operates 34 dedicated broadcast stations, and provides content for more than 140 stations.

With over 35 years of media and marketing experience, Coles has discovered, developed, and managed an array of successful talent and leaders. He has also worked with many of the largest companies in the world to provide media and marketing solutions. His creative spirit and strong business acumen make him uniquely qualified for his current role as well as his growing commitment to board service. His expertise in strategic planning, management, marketing, and content creation, combined with his ability to build strong brand partnerships across the media sector, has delivered powerful results throughout his career.

His philanthropic work focuses on non-profit organizations dedicated to mentorship, youth development, as well as career advancement in media. Coles currently serves as national Board Vice Chair for Big Brothers Big Sisters of America, he is the Multicultural Committee Chair for the RAB, and serves as a board member for the National Association of Broadcasters Leadership Foundation.

Coles holds an MBA from Western Governors University. He also holds a Bachelor's Degree in Communications from Marylhurst University. He currently lives outside of Chicago with his wife and two sons.

Terrance Williams

President and CEO, TruStage

Terrance Williams became the ninth president and chief executive officer (CEO) of TruStage on October 1, 2023. TruStage is a leading provider of insurance, investments, and technology solutions to financial institutions, advisors, and companies serving middle-market consumers. With more than 4,200 employees, the company has significant operations across the United States and operates international businesses in Canada and the Caribbean. The company headquarters is in Madison, Wisconsin.

As president and CEO, Williams is continuing to build on the company's nearly century-long history of being an influential leader in the credit union system and broader financial and insurance industries. With his tenure and broad experience in insurance innovation and digital strategy, he's moving the company's vision forward, ensuring brighter financial futures are accessible to everyone.

Prior to joining TruStage, Williams was president, Protection Products and Services for Allstate, responsible for non-property-liability businesses that ranged from start-up ventures to mature businesses. These entities represented approximately $4 billion in revenue. In his previous role as executive vice president and general manager of Allstate Property-Liability Sales and Distribution, Williams was responsible for driving innovation in the company's distribution channels, including 10,000 domestic agencies and more than 30,000 licensed sales professionals, direct-to-consumer call centers and web sales in the United States and Canada. These channels accounted for over $30 billion of written premium for the enterprise.

Before joining Allstate in 2020, Williams spent more than 20 years at Nationwide, where he most recently served as president of their Emerging Business Group, including a team of 1,300+ employees. There, he led innovation and digital strategy, served as the enterprise's chief marketing officer, and established the company's $100M venture capital fund. Williams has been recognized by many, including Forbes as one of "The World's Most Influential CMOs" in 2017 and 2018 and Savoy Magazine as one of the most influential black corporate directors in 2021.

Beyond the office, Williams is a firm believer in philanthropic efforts toward the betterment of communities. He is an active participant and has served on many non-profit boards in multiple markets including Big Brothers/Big Sisters, the Urban League, and others. He is also actively involved in numerous mentor programs, including work as a mentor to undergraduates at the University of South Carolina.

Williams earned his bachelor's in risk management and insurance from the University of South Carolina. He is an advisory board member for the university's Risk and Uncertainty Management Center at the Darla Moore School of Business, which helps students and organizations improve decision-making. Williams is also on the board of directors for Encompass Health, the largest owner and operator of rehabilitation hospitals in the United States.

Solomon Thomas

Defensive Lineman, New York Jets

Solomon Thomas is a Defensive Lineman for the New York Jets and their 2022 Walter Payton Man of The Year nominee which is one of the league's most prestigious honors. Solomon landed in New York after four seasons with the 49ers who drafted him as the #3 overall player in the 2017 NFL draft and spent the '21 season with the Las Vegas Raiders.

During his second season with the Niners, Solomon and his family experienced an unimaginable and tragic loss. On January 23, 2018, his big sister Ella died by suicide. This traumatic and personal loss impacted his next few years in the NFL. In 2021, Solomon with the help of his parents, Co-Founded The Defensive Line (TDL), a nonprofit organization focused on training, educating, and equipping leaders of young people of color, to be the mental health community that empowers a lifesaving connection. TDL's vision is "A world where no young person of color dies by suicide."

Off the field, Solomon has not only committed financially to the causes he believes in, but he also actively contributes his time, energy, and mind to the growth and success of his organization. His public speaking always centers around sharing Ella's story and his own mental health journey to bring the hopefulness he carries and the belief he has that everyone has extraordinary value and deserves to live healthy lives. His message is positive and uplifting, and he shares it in public as much as he does privately with those around him. He doesn't push, but he offers insight and experience, sharing a kind of wisdom that people crave and thrive on.

The work with The Defensive Line has included a partnership with The Super Football Conference in New Jersey to speak with high school students about mental health, the 988 campaign with Dak Prescott and the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention, and an educational panel for all Paramount Global in October. Thomas has also worked with a myriad of nonprofit organizations to raise awareness, secure funds for mental health/suicide prevention research, and advocate for local and national politicians to improve mental health/suicide prevention legislation and policies. He has consistently demonstrated a generous and quiet giving mentality, donating to many organizations over the years, including The Golden Heart Foundation, Boys and Girls Club of Tracy Kipp Minnesota, Champion Charities Foundation, American Foundation for Suicide Prevention, Hui Aloha Kiholo, Mississippi Rapid Response Coalition, 22 And You Foundation, My Brother's Keeper, Blue Dragon, and many others. When a member of the 49ers staff lost everything in the Paradise Fires, Solomon supported them financially.

Solomon expects to come into his own with the New York Jets and every game will be played in memory of his sister Ella.

Sway Calloway

Sway in the Morning with Heather B & Tracy G

An icon of hip-hop culture and a pivotal part of MTV, Sway Calloway has been a staple within music news for two decades. Already a vanguard radio personality, record producer and hip-hop artist, Sway joined the MTV News team in 2000 and has been front and center for some of music's biggest moments.

Sway first caught the public's eye when he and his partner King Tech (Tech) staged break dancing and rap performances in and around their hometown of Oakland, California. The duo won a local contest with landmark radio station KMEL-FM. The world-famous Wake Up Show is one of the longest hip-hop shows that has been in syndication all over the world. Hip Hop had the opportunity to launch their own mix show recognizing Sway's instincts for great sound and promising talent. Interscope enlisted him and Tech to produce an album called This or That, featuring artists such as Eminem, KRS-One and RZA from the Wu-Tang Clan.

Sway has been a key correspondent for MTV's Choose or Lose and Power Of '12 campaigns for the channel. Since his involvement, he has interviewed various political leaders like Bill Clinton, Republican National Committee Chair Ed Gillespie, Hillary Clinton, Ron Paul, John McCain and Mitt Romney. He's also sat down with President Barack Obama six times.

Sway's other MTV News endeavors have included TRL, the All Eyes series which featured top artists like Kanye West and 50 Cent, MTV News Now: Jay-Z vs. Nas: Beats, Battles & Beef, MTV News Presents: After the Storm, RapFix Live, The Hottest MCs list and TRL-AM.

In addition, Sway is an integral part of MTV News' annual live events that include red carpet coverage of the MTV Video Music Awards, MTV European Awards, and Grammys pre-show. Sway serves as an MTV Executive Producer and brings new programming ideas to the station. He's also contributing talent to other ViacomCBS channels, MTV2, and VH1 networks.

His work continues throughout the nation and community where he has been a part of various panels and discussions hosting and moderating on important issues like Hate Crimes, Racism and Education.

Sway is the host of SiriusXM's Shade 45 daily morning show, SWAY IN THE MORNING With HEATHER B and TRACY G from 8am to 12pm EST. He is also the Chief Navigator for his site, SwaysUniverse.com, that features celebrity interviews, music, entertainment and health news. Lastly, he is a recent inductee into the Radio Hall of Fame Class of 2020. @realsway

Makola M. Abdullah, Ph.D.

President of Virginia State University,

BBBSA National Board Member

"Serving as President of Virginia State University has been the highlight of my academic career. I have witnessed firsthand the transformative power of education. I work with amazing faculty and staff members who show an unwavering commitment to excellence in education. I extend my gratitude to the VSU Board of Visitors for their vote of confidence and for giving me the opportunity to continue the GREATER work at Virginia State University."

Dr. Makola M. Abdullah began his VSU career in February 2016 with an unwavering dedication and commitment to excellence. As a new president, he outlined the core beliefs that became the foundation of his work for VSU: beliefs in God, family, the transformative nature of education, and in Virginia State University. With that foundation in mind, President Abdullah and his new administration began planning the 2020-2025 Strategic Plan: Preeminence with Purpose to chart the University's path to continued growth and excellence. His plan set forth the next chapter for VSU, which focused on six areas: Student Opportunity and Access, Academic Excellence, The Holistic Experience for Students, Enhancing the Land Grant Mission of the University, Advancing the VSU Brand, and Financial/Operational Effectiveness.

Under President Abdullah's leadership and guidance, VSU experienced the single largest year-to-year enrollment increase in over a decade and the highest retention rate in more than twenty years. The University also increased the 4-year graduation rate to the highest recorded rate in the University's history. Virginia State University also placed in ESSENCE magazine's top 20 "Best Colleges for African Americans" and U.S. News and World Report's "Top 30 in the Best Overall HBCUs for 2022". The University ranked in the top 30% in the "Performers on Social Mobility" list, the Top 10 in Student Retention Programs at HBCUs, and the top 15% of Bang-for-your-Buck institutions in the Southeast Region of the United States. The University has also extended its academic offerings with newly added undergraduate, graduate, and doctoral degrees. In addition, the University offers fully online programs/degrees and a free tuition program for students from area high schools.

Under Dr. Abdullah's guidance, Virginia State University's year-end financial reserves have tripled. The University also received a $30 million gift—the largest single donor gift in the University's history—aiding the university in growing the investments from approximately $40 million to $80 million. In addition, under Dr. Abdullah, VSU has more new infrastructure happening concurrently than at any point in its 140-year history. This includes a new 30,000-square-foot admissions building, a research and cooperative extension facility, improvements to Rogers Stadium, and a new $120 million Alfred W. Harris Academic Commons—the largest building ever constructed on the VSU campus. In 2021, VSU also renamed four buildings to honor Black women who have made significant contributions to the University.

Under the leadership of President Abdullah, in 2018, Virginia State University successfully completed its reaffirmation of accreditation with the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC). The University was reaffirmed for ten years with no recommendations. The President has led the launch of several significant initiatives since taking office. These include the establishment of the John Mercer Langston Institute for African American Political Leadership to assess, develop and empower African American leaders; the establishment of The Center for Policing Leadership and Social Justice to address the critical divide between law enforcement and communities of color; and the establishment of the Office of Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging on campus to promote good relations toward and support those who may be subject to discrimination.

Boards and Committees

During his tenure at VSU, President Abdullah has become a national leader—fighting on behalf of the transformative work of Virginia State University and all HBCUs. He has served on a plethora of boards and committees, including the following:

- Chair of the Infrastructure Committee for the U.S. President's Board of Advisors (PBA) on Historically Black Colleges and Universities

- Chair of the Council of Presidents for the Association of Public Land-Grant Universities (APLU)

- Chair of the Council of Presidents for Virginia Institutions of Higher Education

- Member of the 1890s Presidents for the Association of Public Land-Grant Universities (APLU) (Former Chair)

- Member of the Central Intercollegiate Athletic Association (CIAA) Board of Directors (Former Chair)

- Member of the Executive Council for the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC)

- Member of the Big Brothers Big Sisters of America National Board

- Member of the Central VA Truist Regional Advisory Board

- Member Virginia Historical Society Board of Trustees

- Member of the A.L. Philpott Manufacturing Extension Partnership (dba GENEDGE) Board of Trustees

- Member of the Richmond Forum Board of Directors

- Member of the Virginia Museum of History and Culture Board of Trustees

- Former member of the Lake Forest Academy Board of Trustees (Former Chair)

Education and Background

Before he was appointed President of Virginia State University, Dr. Abdullah served as Provost and Senior Vice President at Bethune-Cookman University in Daytona Beach, FL (2013-2016), Provost and Vice President for Academic Affairs at Florida Memorial University in Miami Gardens, FL (2011-2013), and Dean and Director of 1890 Land Grant Programs at Florida Agricultural and Mechanical University in Tallahassee, FL (2008-2011).

Dr. Abdullah is a Chicago native. He earned his undergraduate degree in civil engineering from Howard University and his doctorate and master's degrees in civil engineering from Northwestern University. He is a member of Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Incorporated.

Honors and Awards

President Abdullah was named the HBCU Male President of the Year in 2017 and was selected as the 2021 Recipient of the Howard University Alumni Award for Distinguished Postgraduate Achievement. He is also the youngest African American to receive a Ph.D. in engineering.

Family

President Abdullah is married to Ahkinyala Cobb-Abdullah, Ph.D. Dr. Cobb-Abdullah is the Dean of the School of Arts and Sciences and the Director of the Center for STEM Diversity at Virginia Union University in Richmond, Virginia. Dr. Cobb-Abdullah earned a Bachelor of Science in Biology from Tuskegee University. She is a two-time alumna of Florida Agricultural and Mechanical University, where she earned a Master of Molecular Biology and a Doctor of Philosophy in Environmental Biomolecular Sciences.

Dr. Abdullah and Dr. Cobb-Abdullah are the proud parents of a son, Mikaili, and a daughter, Sefiyetu. Mikaili is a graduate of Morehouse College and a current Ph.D. student at the Morehouse School of Medicine. Sefiyetu is a two-time graduate of Virginia State University with a Master of Science in Computer Science.

Kelvin Beachum

Offensive Tackle, Arizona Cardinals

Kelvin Beachum is a Texas native in his 12th NFL season, currently with the Arizona Cardinals. He is an SMU graduate ('10, '12) an Executive Board member, and a member of the Players Inc. Advisory Committee, the Players Coalition, and the Donors Choose Advisory Board. He is a professional speaker, advisor, board member, and active technology investor. Along with his NFL and business commitments, Beachum is passionate about ending hunger, providing clean water access, advocating for education equity, and encouraging minority youth to pursue STEAM disciplines while addressing the digital divide. Beachum resides in Arizona with his wife, Jessica, and their three children.

Rachaad White

Running Back, Tampa Bay Buccaneers

Born in Kansas City, MO as the youngest of four boys, Rachaad has always been active. His mother, Rochelle, always emphasized respect for elders, honoring your word, being true to yourself, and being thankful for what you have. Rochelle enrolled all of her boys in the Big Brothers Big Sisters program, seeking additional mentorship and positive male role models for her sons. Naturally, Rachaad couldn't wait to find his match after seeing the opportunities his older brothers had. Rachaad played multiple sports growing up but excelled most at basketball and football. At Center High School in Kansas City, he went on to become All State in football and All Conference in basketball. Surprisingly, he wasn't recruited by any D1 schools so he committed to a Division II school, Nebraska Kearney. Once there, his teammates saw what a great player he was and suggested he transfer to a Junior College, which would then lead him towards his goal of playing for a Power 5, Division 1 school. He took their advice and transferred to Mt San Antonio College in Walnut, California. At Mt Sac, he became a top Running Back in the nation before committing to Arizona State. At Arizona State, his ascent continued, leading the team in both rushing and receiving which caught the attention of all 32 NFL teams. In April of 2022, his ultimate dream came true. He was selected as the 91st overall pick by the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. In his first year in the NFL, he played alongside Tom Brady, took over the starting Running Back role, contributed to the team's playoff berth, and lead all rookie Running Backs in receiving. Rachaad resides in the Tampa area, is a devoted father to a beautiful daughter named Nevaeh, and loyal friend to many.

Kelvin L. Buncum

Executive Vice President

Neighborhood Markets, Walmart U.S.

Kelvin L. Buncum is executive vice president of Neighborhood Markets for Walmart U.S. His responsibilities include overseeing all aspects of Neighborhood Market operations. Kelvin and his team are focused on creating a great experience that includes increased convenience for busy customers and high-quality fresh items that delight the entire family.

Prior to assuming his current role, Kelvin held several leadership positions at Walmart, including regional vice president of the Atlanta/North Georgia region, regional vice president of the North Central region, vice president of innovations and global business processes, vice president of operations strategy and integration and regional general manager for the Mid- South region.

Before joining Walmart, Kelvin held leadership positions with several companies and across multiple industries. Immediately prior to Walmart, he was President/CEO of International Medical Solutions, a start-up he launched with two partners. Kelvin's professional experiences also include senior leadership roles at Pepsi Bottling Group, US Radio, and Joyner Communications.

In addition, Kelvin has worked for Digital Equipment Corporation, AT&T Bell Laboratories and Northern Telecom. With these companies, he held leadership roles in the areas of product development, marketing, sales management and applications planning.

Kelvin has been actively involved over the years in trade and community organizations. He has served as chairman of the Georgia Beverage Association and held board positions with the Safe America Foundation, APEX Museum, Georgia Food Industry Association, Warrick Dunn Family Foundation, Sigma Pi Phi Fraternity Foundation, Hughes-Spalding Children's Hospital, Feeding America, Criminal Justice SVN and Big Brothers Big Sisters of Northwest Arkansas.

Kelvin graduated with a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering and received an Honorary Doctorate from North Carolina A & T State University. He also earned an MBA from Harvard Business School.

Name of Game Changer here

Story here. Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Sed facilisis ipsum tortor, sed euismod magna finibus ac. Maecenas sollicitudin egestas neque ac aliquam. Morbi aliquet aliquet rutrum. Vivamus nec feugiat eros. Praesent finibus quam sit amet libero consectetur ullamcorper. Aliquam rhoncus sollicitudin nisi, eget posuere nisi rhoncus vel. Orci varius natoque penatibus et magnis dis parturient montes, nascetur ridiculus mus. Integer malesuada tortor lorem, id ornare neque porttitor non. Praesent cursus id elit vel euismod. Ut ultricies odio vehicula eleifend ornare. Sed quis purus sit amet elit luctus commodo quis non nibh. Proin et vulputate est. Cras sed molestie neque. Fusce volutpat neque ex. Donec convallis, velit aliquam hendrerit lobortis, est augue mattis metus, nec volutpat mi nisl sit amet orci. Etiam congue, diam nec fermentum vehicula, dui sapien maximus dui, ut hendrerit lacus neque sed libero.

Name of Game Changer here

Story here. Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Sed facilisis ipsum tortor, sed euismod magna finibus ac. Maecenas sollicitudin egestas neque ac aliquam. Morbi aliquet aliquet rutrum. Vivamus nec feugiat eros. Praesent finibus quam sit amet libero consectetur ullamcorper. Aliquam rhoncus sollicitudin nisi, eget posuere nisi rhoncus vel. Orci varius natoque penatibus et magnis dis parturient montes, nascetur ridiculus mus. Integer malesuada tortor lorem, id ornare neque porttitor non. Praesent cursus id elit vel euismod. Ut ultricies odio vehicula eleifend ornare. Sed quis purus sit amet elit luctus commodo quis non nibh. Proin et vulputate est. Cras sed molestie neque. Fusce volutpat neque ex. Donec convallis, velit aliquam hendrerit lobortis, est augue mattis metus, nec volutpat mi nisl sit amet orci. Etiam congue, diam nec fermentum vehicula, dui sapien maximus dui, ut hendrerit lacus neque sed libero.

John Waller

EVP, Talent Management & Business Development, IFA

Born in Iowa, John is the youngest of four. His parents joke that he grew up with three moms – his actual mother and his two older sisters. His older brother Dan was less interested when John entered the picture – but he came around eventually. As the youngest, he was frequently around adults and developed an appreciation for community, friendship, and communication. His family has always valued integrity, humility, and loyalty. John spent every day of his childhood playing sports and loved being outside with friends.The family moved to Washington State during John's fifth grade year where they stayed until John graduated high school. He followed in his older siblings footsteps and attended the University of Kansas for College. After initially considering Social Work, he earned his degree in Communication Studies and Leadership. After graduating, he moved to Kansas City and started his career in sales. While his sales career started to take off, he still had this burning desire to do more – to tap into his inner social worker and make a positive impact on a young person's life. He enrolled to become a Big with BBBS Kansas City. It's one of the best decisions he'll ever make in his life. He and Rachaad became fast friends, spending valuable time together every week. They'd play all the sports, go to the pool, play at the park, eat stomach-stuffing meals, visit with his sister and her kids, and engage in meaningful conversations about this complicated, beautiful thing we call life. John continues to make his living in sales, now with a professional sports agency called IFA, and also started a plant-based food business with his wife Jessica. He resides in Minneapolis with Jessica, their daughter Maeve, son Eli, and rescue pup Javier. He and Rachaad remain as close as ever with John acting more formally as his Business Manager.

Reette Thorns

Singer-Songwriter, 2023 American Idol Contestant

Reette Thorns grew up in Madison, Wisconsin, where she was a foster kid for most of her early adolescence. She graduated from what is now, 'Vel Phillips Memorial' where she was a star Track and Field athlete as well as a star basketball player. She remained a top athlete in track and field three out of four years on varsity in Wisconsin High school Athletics. She is a student at Grand Valley State university competing in Track and Field and studies Theatre. At her university, she has been recognized as Student-Athlete of the week for having all A's by midterms and remaining top 16 in the country for track and field in NCCA D2. Reette recently participated in her first play, 'Merry Wives of Windsor,' with the Theatre department at Grand Valley. Most recently, Reette has given focus to acting, singing, and learning the guitar, and is preparing to take on a music minor in the early fall.

Trying to break into the entertainment industry, she recently on the show 'American Idol' where she received an in-person audition and the Golden Ticket to Hollywood. Since the show,she has been writing music, taking vocal lessons, and practicing instruments as she begins to find herself as an artist.

Her focus right now is finishing her degree in Theatre and starting her work in the music department. She plans to continue to write and produce music as well. In her free time, she loves to listen to and write music, play the guitar, study monologues for acting auditions and swim, a lot.

Big Brothers Big Sisters has been a part of her life for well over a decade and it was the best decision her mother ever made for her. Her Big Sister, Elizabeth, and the organization have changed her life in ways the world could never imagine. The program gave her the opportunity to have opportunities, good life choices attainable, and to find friendships, family, and love. Big Brothers Big Sisters brought her a best friend, sister, mentor, confidant, laughter, and my mom all in one.

Bill Plaschke

Sports Columnist, Los Angeles Times

Bill Plaschke, an L.A. Times sports columnist since 1996, is a member of the National Sports Media Hall of Fame and California Sports Hall of Fame. He has been named national sports columnist of the year nine times by the Associated Press, and twice by the Society of Professional Journalists and National Headliner Awards. He is the author of six books, including a collection of his columns entitled, "Plaschke: Good Sports, Spoil Sports, Foul Ball and Oddballs." Plaschke is also a panelist on the popular ESPN daily talk show, "Around the Horn." Plaschke has been named Man of the Year by the Los Angeles Big Brothers/Big Sisters, and has received a Pursuit of Justice Award from the California Women's Law Center. Plaschke has appeared in a movie ("Ali"), a dramatic HBO series ("Luck") and, in a crowning cultural moment he still does not quite understand, his name can be found in a rap song "Females Welcome" by Asher Roth. In case you were wondering – and he was – "Plaschke" is rhymed with "Great Gatsby." Plaschke is from Louisville, Ky., graduated from Southern Illinois University-Edwardsville, and has three children – Tessa, Willie and MC – and a granddaughter Daisy Ann.

Nancy Lieberman

Naismith Basketball Hall of Famer

Nancy is a Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Famer, BIG3 Head Coach, 2018 Champion and Coach of the year. Two-time Olympian, silver-medalist (1976).

Her coaching career has included the NBA, WNBA, NBA G League and the BIG3 and at each step along the way she has broken barriers, elevated the profile of women in the game, and helped develop the current and next generation of basketball players. Under her leadership, the Team Power won the BIG3 championship in 2018, making her the first female coach to win a title in a men's pro league.

She helped the United States win medals at the 1976 Olympic Games in Montreal (silver medal), the 1979 World Championships in Seoul (gold medal), 1975 and 1979 Pan American Games in Mexico (gold medal) and Puerto Rico (silver medal), and the gold medal in the 1979 Jones Cup in Taipei.

After winning consecutive AIAW National Championships and one WNIT Championship at Old Dominion University, Nancy was a three-time All American and two-time national player of the year in collegiate basketball for the Monarchs. She was the first pick in first ever women's pro league, the Women's Basketball League (WBL), for the Dallas Diamonds in 1980. In 1985, the Diamonds won the championship in the WABA and Nancy was Player of the Year. She played for the Los Angeles Lakers in the Summer Pro League in 1981 for Pat Riley in preparation for her upcoming season with the Diamonds. In 1986 and 1987, Nancy joined the USBL, becoming the first woman to play in a men's proffessional league, 1986 with the Springfield Fame and 1987 with the Long Island Knights. The Lieberman Award, presented by the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame, recognizes the top point guard in women's NCAA Division I college basketball for their floor leadership, playmaking and winning mentality.

Peggy Lewis

Ph.D

Dr. Peggy Lewis retired from academia as the Executive Dean of the School of Business and Graduate Studies and the School of Professional Studies at Trinity Washington University. Dr. Lewis is now a facilitator of racial reconciliation. She is a native Washingtonian and an alumna of Trinity. She received a Ph.D. with distinction from Howard University. Her dissertation title: "Preaching, Praying and Strategic Media Planning: From Montgomery to Selma, How the Civil Rights Movement Forced Journalists to Do Their Job." Prior to Trinity, she was an Assistant Professor and Broadcast Sequence Coordinator in the Department of Journalism at Howard University. Before coming to academia, she spent nearly 20 years as an award-winning broadcast journalist in Washington, New York, and Miami before embarking on a career in public service which included working for President William Jefferson Clinton, First Lady Hillary Rodham Clinton, U.S. Secretary of Labor Alexis Herman, and Children's Defense Fund Founder and President, Marian Wright Edelman. She is a member of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, The Washington D.C. Chapter of the Links, Inc., and a member of the National Presbyterian Church where she serves as an Elder and Stephen Minister.

Stephen Hill

Content Creator and Television Executive

At the intersection of Music and visual distribution is where you'll find Stephen Hill leaning on the street sign.

Most recently, Hill served as the EVP, Creative at the legendary Dick Clark Productions. He was responsible for overseeing the creative directions of Dick Clark's New Year's Rockin' Eve with Ryan Seacrest, The Golden Globes, The Academy of Country Music Awards, The Billboard Awards, The American Music Awards and The Streamys.

Hill is the former President of Programming for BET Networks, where he spent 18 years

developing and creating programs for the leading provider of entertainment for the AfricanAmerican audience and consumers of Black culture globally.

Hill is best known for heading the team that developed and implemented the Award winning tentpole shows on BET including the BET Hip Hop Awards, Black Girls Rock!, BET Honors and the show with the largest African-American viewership every year since its inception, The BET

Awards.

Also, under Hill's leadership, the BET team built a noteworthy catalog of quality and beloved programming including "Real Husbands of Hollywood," "The New Edition Story, "College Hill" , and "Tales."

During his tenure, he supervised the growth and popularity of the network's music shows and live events, creating not only unforgettable content and some of the most talked about moments

in television, but iconic franchises including "106 & Park," and "Rap City: The Bassment."

In addition to behind the desk duties, Hill occasionally showed up on front of the camera; most notably as the host for the NAACP Image Award Winning "BET News presents: An Aaliyah Reflection", as the host for the BET Michael Jackson: Bad 25 special, and as the host for "BET's Remembrance of Prince" in April 2016. In 2004, Prince sat down with Hill for a jovial, wideranging conversation (seen by over 1.5 million people) that has been referred to on YouTube as

"Prince's Best Interview" (PRINCE BEST INTERVIEW AND PERFORMANCE)

Prior to joining BET Networks in 1999, Stephen worked for four years at MTV in New York City as Director of Music Programming. As Director, Hill was responsible for selecting and programming all genres of videos for airplay, working with talent and supervising the network's

standards processes.

Hill got his start in music working with industry legend, Elroy Smith, who was programming director at WILD-AM in Boston, MA. In 1993, Hill and his team took WILD-AM to its highest ratings ever, beating six full-time FM stations in the process. Hill has also done extensive work with ABC Radio Network's Urban Gold Format, launching their 24-hour format. Gaining many

accolades for his work with ABC Radio Networks, he also served as executive producer for the Tom Joyner Morning Show.

Hill credits much of his success to his childhood passion of announcing various songs that he kept on a tape player. He began shaping his formal career at Brown's University's radio station, WBRU-FM, in Providence, RI.

Ryan Detert

Founder and CEO of Influential

As Founder and CEO of Influential, an AI social data and conversion company, Ryan Detert has brought top influencers, brands, press, and financing to his venture-backed company.

With over a decade of experience in the influencer and social media space, Ryan's mission to optimize and streamline branded content with a data-first approach has shifted the industry and led to being recognized in AdAge's annual 40 under 40 awards in 2021.

Through Influential, Ryan has built the largest influencer marketing company in the world, by revenue, and developed invaluable partnerships with prestigious technology and media companies, including Meta, TikTok, IBM Watson, Oracle Data Cloud, IRI, and WME.

Ryan is passionate about doing well for others, and has forged philanthropic efforts with organizations that include The United Nations, WHO, and CDC, as well as U.S.-based non-profits, such as Big Brothers Big Sisters of America and Rock The Vote.

Tory Green

Special Agent, U.S. Secret Service

Tory Green, a native of Huntsville, Alabama, was raised by a single mother in a housing project with his three brothers. To help build a better future for her sons, Tory's mother enrolled him and his brothers in Big Brothers Big Sisters. Although Tory was first placed on the wait list for a male mentor, he immediately he became engaged in the program activities. Then at the age of 11, his Big Brother Roy came into his life.

Roy showed Tory that a life existed outside of his neighborhood. He demonstrated what it meant to work hard and be a good man. Roy involved Tory in life events, like weddings and births, which Tory reciprocated. More importantly, Roy instilled in Tory that you can really accomplish your goals and dreams.

In 2009, Tory gave the State of Scouting address to a Joint Session of Congress and was given the opportunity to meet with President Barack Obama and First Lady Michelle Obama in the Oval Office.

Roy has supported Tory into adulthood, as he started his career path in law enforcement in Huntsville, Alabama; graduated college; became a member of Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity Inc.; and ultimately becoming a Special Agent with the United States Secret Service.

Judge Robert Wilkins

Judge, U.S. Circuit Court

Judge Wilkins was appointed to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit on January 15, 2014. A native of Muncie Indiana, he obtained a B.S. in Chemical Engineering from Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology in 1986 and a J.D. from Harvard Law School in 1989. Following law school, Judge Wilkins served as a law clerk to the Honorable Earl B. Gilliam of the United States District Court for the Southern District of California. In 1990, he joined the Public Defender Service for the District of Columbia, where he served first as a staff attorney in the trial and appellate divisions and later for several years as Special Litigation Chief. In 2002, he joined the law firm of Venable LLP as a partner, handling white-collar defense, intellectual property and complex civil litigation matters. During his tenure with the Public Defender Service and in private practice, Judge Wilkins served as the lead plaintiff in Wilkins, et al. v. State of Maryland, a landmark civil rights lawsuit that inspired nationwide legislative and executive reform of police stop-and-search practices and the collection of data regarding those practices. Judge Wilkins also played a key role in the establishment of the Smithsonian National Museum of African American History and Culture (opened in September 2016 on the National Mall), serving as the Chairman of the Site and Building Committee of the Presidential Commission whose work led to the Congressional authorization of the museum and the selection of its location. As a practicing lawyer, he was named one of the "40 under 40 most successful young litigators in America" by the National Law Journal (2002) and one of the "90 Greatest Washington Lawyers of the Last 30 Years" by the Legal Times (2008). In 2019, Judge Wilkins received the Harvard Law School Association Award and the Washington Bar Association Charles Hamilton Houston Medallion of Merit. On December 27, 2010, Judge Wilkins was appointed United States District Judge for the District of Columbia, where he served until his appointment to the D.C. Circuit.

Steve Soboroff

Commissioner, Los Angeles Police Department

Steve Soboroff is a businessman and philanthropist who has been serving as a Los Angeles Police Commissioner since August of 2013. Soboroff previously served as President of the Los Angeles Recreation and Parks Commission between 1995 and 2000. After serving on the L.A. Harbor Commission and as Senior Advisor to Los Angeles Mayor Richard Riordan, Soboroff ran for Mayor of Los Angeles in the 2001 election and placed third.

In September 2011, Soboroff was appointed by the California Science Center to be the Senior Advisor to the museum in its project with NASA to bring, and permanently exhibit, the Space Shuttle Endeavour. He was Chairman of the Center for the Study of Los Angeles at Loyola Marymount University, and was a Senior Fellow and member of the Advisory Board at UCLA's Luskin School of Public Affairs.

As the former Chairman and CEO of Playa Vista, one of the nation's most significant multi-use real estate projects, Mr. Soboroff and his team oversee all aspects of the Playa Vista community. Described by the Los Angeles Times as "L.A.'s Urban Model," the sustainable development provides critically needed housing, commercial office space and neighborhood shopping, while adding parks, preserving the environment and restoring hundreds of acres of wetlands.

Soboroff has a strong track record for creating, improving and protecting open space and park land for city residents. As president of the L.A. Recreation and Parks Commission, he reinvigorated the city's park system to better meet the recreational needs of the people of Los Angeles. In addition, Steve was the driving force behind bringing Staples Center to Los Angeles and helped spearhead the Alameda Corridor Project.

Active in Big Brothers since 1968, Mr. Soboroff served as its President and then Chairman Emeritus, and continues to support Big Brothers Big Sisters. Mr. Soboroff's company, Soboroff Partners, received the "Los Angeles Beautiful" Award for restoration of retail buildings on Montana Avenue and in Malibu. A successful real estate executive who was honored locally as Harvard Business School's "Business Statesman of the Year," and was given the "Lifetime Achievement Award" by the Los Angeles Chamber of Commerce, Mr. Soboroff holds Bachelor and Masters Degrees in the Dept. of Finance, Insurance and Real Estate from the University of Arizona.

Mark S. Tillman

Past General President, Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity

Mark S. Tillman is a committed supporter of mentoring. He is a three-time mentor with Big Brothers Big Sisters for over twenty years to Littles Devon, Crispin, and Elijah He is a recipient of the organization's Community Impact Award. He has been honored as a "Person of the Week" by the local ABC affiliated news station WXYZ and the 100 Black Men of Metro Detroit for his dedication to mentoring.

Mark served as the 34th General President of Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc. Under his leadership, Mark supported the development of young boys into responsible and productive adults. Throughout his administration, Alpha Phi Alpha focused on the mission of developing leaders" and the organization received a one-million dollar grant to support the mentoring of young men.

Professionally, Mark has over thirty years of information technology experience. He is currently a senior IT project manager with Michigan Medicine in Ann Arbor, Michigan. Mark is a native of New Orleans, Louisiana and a graduate of Dillard University. He is married to Velicia, his wife of over twenty-five years.

Don Wolf (Posthumous)

Former President Emeritus, Do It Best Corp.

Don Wolf served for more than 25 years as president and CEO of what would become Do it Best Corp. and helped grow it into a multi-billion-dollar international home improvement co-op. He began his career at Hardware Wholesalers Inc. (HWI) in 1947, advancing in the company's ranks through leadership roles in the purchasing, marketing and sales departments. He was appointed CEO in 1967, when the co-op consisted of one distribution center serving 12 states with $35 million in annual sales. By the time he retired in 1992, Wolf's leadership and vision had helped the co-op grow to more than $1.2 billion in sales, with six distribution centers serving the entire continental United States and several foreign countries. Wolf played a key role in laying the groundwork for the merger between HWI and Our Own Hardware that led to the creation of Do it Best Corp. in 1998.

Wolf played key development, leadership and mentoring roles for a number of nonprofit and charitable organizations in Fort Wayne and throughout the state of Indiana. In 1972, he co-founded and served as the first president of Big Brothers of Greater Fort Wayne and later served as president of the national board of Big Brothers Big Sisters of America from 1977-1980.

In addition, he founded Study Connection in 1989 in partnership with Fort Wayne Community Schools. Today, this program trains and provides approximately 1,000 volunteer tutors each year to help students with homework while building their confidence and self-esteem.

He received an Honorary Doctorate of Humane Letters from Purdue University and an Honorary Doctorate of Humanities from Vincennes University. Wolf was also named the Fort Wayne Journal Gazette Newspaper Citizen of the Year in 1991 and, that same year, was awarded the Pathfinder Award for service to youth by Indiana Youthlinks. In 1993, he was named Indiana Business Leader of the Year by the Indiana State Chamber of Commerce.

On September 11, 2019, Don Wolf passed away at the age of 90. Wolf is survived by his wife Ginny, as well as their four children, Donna, Lisa, Rebecca, and Rick, and numerous grandchildren and great-grandchildren.

Kate Snow

NBC Nightly News Sunday Anchor and NBC News Senior National Correspondent

Kate Snow is the anchor of NBC Nightly News Sunday and an award-winning Senior National Correspondent for NBC News. Her reporting appears across all platforms of NBC News and MSNBC. She currently contributes regularly to Nightly News with Lester Holt, TODAY, and Dateline NBC.

She also hosts NBC News' The Drink with Kate Snow, a digital series and podcast where she speaks with innovators and influencers and dives into their success stories. In 2019, Snow created and hosted Relentless with Kate Snow, which aired on Oxygen and featured stories of crime survivors who were relentless in their pursuit of justice for a family member. From 2015-2017, Snow anchored a weekday news program on MSNBC, which featured newsmakers and fast-paced political coverage.

Snow is perhaps best known for insightful stories that make an impact, including her reporting on mental health, for which she was honored for by the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention. In 2019, Snow won an Emmy for her 2018 exclusive sit-down with Andrea Constand, who broke her 13-year silence about the case that led to Bill Cosby's conviction. That Dateline hour followed Snow's 2015 Dateline special with 27 Bill Cosby accusers in one room, which also won both Emmy and duPont awards. Additionally, her 2015 series about transgender children was called a "phenomenon," as millions of people watched a video about 5-year-old Jacob that went viral on social media, and millions more watched stories on Nightly News and TODAY. Her Emmy-winning 2014 series, "Hooked: America's Heroin Epidemic," put a human face on a public health crisis, prompted congressional hearings and legislative action, and was praised by drug policy organizations.

Snow has also covered politics throughout her career, including six presidential elections, the White House and Congress. She has interviewed a wide range of newsmakers, from President Obama to Bono; Jeff Bezos to Ringo Starr. She pointedly questioned President Bill Clinton in his first interview after his wife lost the 2008 nomination. But she can just as easily sing a tune with Rick Springfield.

Prior to joining NBC News in 2010, Snow was the anchor of the weekend edition of ABC's Good Morning America for six years. Previously, she was a White House correspondent for ABC News and a Congressional Correspondent for CNN.

Snow is the wife of radio host Chris Bro and proud mom of Zack and Abby. She is a graduate of Cornell University and holds a Master's degree in international affairs from Georgetown University's School of Foreign Service. She works closely with many charitable organizations and serves on the Board of Big Brothers Big Sisters of NYC, recently receiving a Lifetime Achievement Award from the national organization.

Snow is on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, TikTok and Snapchat at @tvkatesnow