lon James

Winner of the prestigious Booker Prize in 2015 for his book A Brief History of Seven Killings, Marlon James is a Jamaican novelist and teacher of literature at Macalester College in St. Paul, Minnesota. Both his parents worked with the Jamaican police. His mother, a detective, gifted him a volume of O. Henry short stories at a young age, sparking his interest in prose. A love of Shakespeare followed soon after, introduced to him by his father, a lawyer for the police.

His earlier works, including Book of Night Women, and John Crow's Devil dealt with the struggles of downtrodden characters in post colonial Jamaica. His Tarantino-esque penchant for depictions of unrestrained physical and sexual violence, along with the complex language and "stylistic excess" of his works made for some divided opinions, and many more rabidly devoted fans.

Some time after graduating from the University of the West Indies in 1991, despite his great love for Jamaica, he left the country to escape the threat of homophobic violence, and to broaden career opportunities that had stagnated there. He stated when asked about his exodus, ""Whether it was in a plane or a coffin, I knew I had to get out of Jamaica."

His recent work features a brutal fantasy mythos full of uniquely African monsters

In 2019 he surprised some of his longtime readers by switching gears, writing a fantasy epic rivaling the scope of classics like Lord of the Rings and Game of Thrones, one that pushed back against the longstanding medieval Eurocentric conventions of the genre. 2019's Black Leopard, Red Wolf saw the author reinventing fantasy itself to suit his tastes, representing characters and settings sorely missing from the greater oeuvre he admired.

A small media company called Warner Bros, along with Michael B. Jordan's production company snatched up the film rights almost immediately. The sequel for this planned trilogy, Moon Witch, Spider King was just released in 2022.

"Maybe it's a Jamaican thing, but so much of what we do is music."

James told Twin Cities PBS that music was an integral part of the creative process for him. He frequents Cheapo Records at least once a week, and aside from his love for Reggae he has a surprisingly eclectic collection on rotation.

While working on A Brief History of Seven Killings, a novel partly inspired by an assassination attempt on Bob Marley, he had the following artists on his playlist:

When Marlon James accepted the Booker Prize for this book, he shone a light on other Jamaican artists who had made it possible for his own voice to be heard:

"The reggae singers Bob Marley and Peter Tosh were the first to recognize that the voice coming out our mouths was a legitimate voice for fiction and for poetry."

8. Anne Rice

The recently departed Anne Rice was among the best-selling novelists of all time, surpassing 100 million copies of her books in the hands of insatiable readers. She's best known for her many novels featuring vampires, werew