at this kid who grew up in an orphanage would go on to exert such influence over crowds in Jamaica, North America, Asia, Africa). And in conversation, he's funny, generous, warm; his verbal tics—"understand?"; "you know?"—extend a hand to make sure the interaction is a give- and-take, not unlike his call-and-response live performances.

Yet the slackness makes one sometimes ask, "Why listen?" (Yellowman himself would sympathize with my take on his slackness. About his six children, he told me, "I don't make them listen to those type of songs… them have to focus on the right way.") I listen to Yellowman not to chant with his "slackness" or even to protest injustice alongside his political fare, but to remind myself what it means to have music challenge our ideas of ourselves and others. I listen to him to get swept up in the exuberance of his singsong voice prancing upon bouncy rhythms, demonstrating that the abandoned can find refuge in music. I listen to him, to experience the joy that comes from the movement of sound, of bodies, of ambitions that announce: still here.

GARNETTE CADOGAN: How were you raised?

YELLOWMAN: Me did find myself in… an orphanage. Before the orphan days, the childhood days, in the baby days, the people who found me, found [me] in a shopping bag in a trash can. Garbage bin. The garbage collector found me. Took me to that orphanage, Maxfield Park Children's Home. That's where I find myself as a little child growing up.

And from there, I move to another orphanage home, Swift-Purcell. After a few years there, I move to Alpha Boys' Home. And from Alpha Boys' Home, I move to Eventide Home; not really an orphanage home, it's a home for people who are neglected. While I'm in Eventide Home, I start to develop the music thing.

After that, I say, "Make me try the studios." I start to go to studios, and then I get turn way from all the studios. From Joe Gibbs, Channel One, Music Works, Aquarius. Sonic Sounds, Dynamic Sounds. All of them. Me get turned out. People run me away. Because back in the day, the skin color—it was very difficult, discrimination me did face. Even now, I still face it. Growing up in that way, I put all of them things together and make it strength.

The way how me come up in the music business, the way how people discriminate and disrespect, rip off, turn me away from studios—All of those things, I put together as strength.

GC: What did people say when they turned you away?

Y: Them say, "Come outta the studio, boy." And sometimes me get abuse physically. A man would kick me out, use him foot and kick me out. And push me out. That's how it go.

GC: Because of your complexion?

Y: Yeah, them never like me. In my days, they called us dundus. Internationally, they call us albino. Mulatto, dundus, all sort of names. And yellowman was one of the discrimination names, so that becomes national. So everybody pick up the name and say, "It's a very catchy name." From that till now, them call me Yellowman and King Yel