---
title: Wesleyan Welcomes 56 New Faculty Members for 2023-24 Academic Year
date: 2023-06-09
---
Wesleyan Welcomes 56 New Faculty Members for 2023-24 Academic Year

Wesleyan welcomes 56 new faculty members for the 2023-24 academic year. The group contains 19 new visiting faculty members, 16 assistant professors, three Andrew W. Mellon Postdoctoral fellows, three associate professors of the practice, three postdoctoral fellows, two university professors, two Distinguished Writers in Residence, two coaches and adjunct professors, one assistant professor of the practice, one distinguished professor, one professor, one associate professor, one Artist-in-Residence, and one teaching fellow.

This group is comprised of experts in African American studies, American studies, biology, computer science, dance, Design & Engineering Studies, Earth and Environmental Studies, East Asian studies, economics, education, English, film, government, history, language, mathematics, media, music, Neuroscience and Behavior, physical education, physics, psychology, religion, sociology, and writing and criticism.

Bios of the new faculty are below:

African American Studies

Amanda Anderson joins African American Studies as an Andrew W. Mellon Postdoctoral Fellow. She earned her Ph.D. in Women's, Gender, and Sexuality Studies from Emory University. Her current book project, Is My Blackness Getting on You, examines the political appeal to empathy as a mode of racial repair. She has developed the concept of "porousness" to explore how the relationship between mutuality and power registers black psychic lives following legacies of racial slavery and black people's ongoing and particular vulnerability to multiple forms of gendered and sexualized harm. Anderson is the recipient of fellowships from the Ford Foundation, the Mellon Foundation, and the Laney Graduate School at Emory University. She has published work on black feminist pedagogy in Feminist Formations. She will be teaching a course entitled "Feeling Black Feminism" in the Fall semester.

BA Brandeis University

PHD Emory University

African American Studies

Liana DeMarco joins African American Studies as an Andrew W. Mellon Postdoctoral Fellow. She received her doctorate from the Program in the History of Science and Medicine at Yale University. In 2022-2023, she was a postdoctoral researcher for the Yale School of Medicine and Slavery Project. Her writing on the history of medicine, race, labor, and capitalism in the Black Atlantic, the Caribbean, and the United States can be found in the Journal of Southern History, the Journal of the History of Medicine and Allied Sciences, Slavery & Abolition, and Labor and Enterprise & Society. She will be teaching a course entitled "Medicine and Healing in the Black Atlantic" in the Fall semester. Her current book project, Sick Time: Medicine and Management under Slavery, examines the management of enslaved people's health and the medicalization of their productivity in nin